{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Liberation Mono{\*\falt Courier New};}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Noto Sans CJK SC Regular;}{\f7\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f8\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 FreeSans;}{\f9\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 FreeSans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar\hyphpar0\cf0\dbch\af6\langfe2052\dbch\af8\afs24\alang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\dbch\af6\dbch\af8\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sl288\slmult1\sb0\sa140 Text Body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sl288\slmult1\sb0\sa140\dbch\af9 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af9\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af9 Index;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20 Preformatted Text;}
}{\*\generator LibreOffice/5.1.6.2$Linux_x86 LibreOffice_project/10m0$Build-2}{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}}\deftab709
\viewscale100
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse451\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default Style;}}
\formshade\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
{\*\ftnsep\chftnsep}\pgndec\pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
1\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAwake ye muses nine, sing me a strain divine,\u13\'0dUnwind the solemn twine, and tie my Valentine!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh the Earth was made for lovers, for damsel, and hopeless swain,\u13\'0dFor sighing, and gentle whispering, and unity made of twain. \u13\'0dAll things do go a courting, in earth, or sea, or air, \u13\'0dGod hath made nothing single but thee in His world so fair! \u13\'0dThe bride, and then the bridegroom, the two, and then the one, \u13\'0dAdam, and Eve, his consort, the moon, and then the sun; \u13\'0dThe life doth prove the precept, who obey shall happy be, \u13\'0dWho will not serve the sovereign, be hanged on fatal tree. \u13\'0dThe high do seek the lowly, the great do seek the small, \u13\'0dNone cannot find who seeketh, on this terrestrial ball; \u13\'0dThe bee doth court the flower, the flower his suit receives, \u13\'0dAnd they make merry wedding, whose guests are hundred leaves; \u13\'0dThe wind doth woo the branches, the branches they are won, \u13\'0dAnd the father fond demandeth the maiden for his son. \u13\'0dThe storm doth walk the seashore humming a mournful tune, \u13\'0dThe wave with eye so pensive, looketh to see the moon, \u13\'0dTheir spirits meet together, they make their solemn vows, \u13\'0dNo more he singeth mournful, her sadness she doth lose. \u13\'0dThe worm doth woo the mortal, death claims a living bride, \u13\'0dNight unto day is married, morn unto eventide; \u13\'0dEarth is a merry damsel, and heaven a knight so true, \u13\'0dAnd Earth is quite coquettish, and beseemeth in vain to sue. \u13\'0dNow to the application, to the reading of the roll, \u13\'0dTo bringing thee to justice, and marshalling thy soul: \u13\'0dThou art a human solo, a being cold, and lone, \u13\'0dWilt have no kind companion, thou reap'st what thou hast sown. \u13\'0dHast never silent hours, and minutes all too long, \u13\'0dAnd a deal of sad reflection, and wailing instead of song? \u13\'0dThere's Sarah, and Eliza, and Emeline so fair, \u13\'0dAnd Harriet, and Susan, and she with curling hair! \u13\'0dThine eyes are sadly blinded, but yet thou mayest see \u13\'0dSix true, and comely maidens sitting upon the tree; \u13\'0dApproach that tree with caution, then up it boldly climb, \u13\'0dAnd seize the one thou lovest, nor care for space, or time! \u13\'0dThen bear her to the greenwood, and build for her a bower, \u13\'0dAnd give her what she asketh, jewel, or bird, or flower -- \u13\'0dAnd bring the fife, and trumpet, and beat upon the drum -- \u13\'0dAnd bid the world Goodmorrow, and go to glory home!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d2\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is another sky, \u13\'0dEver serene and fair, \u13\'0dAnd there is another sunshine, \u13\'0dThough it be darkness there; \u13\'0dNever mind faded forests, Austin, \u13\'0dNever mind silent fields - \u13\'0dHere is a little forest, \u13\'0dWhose leaf is ever green; \u13\'0dHere is a brighter garden, \u13\'0dWhere not a frost has been; \u13\'0dIn its unfading flowers \u13\'0dI hear the bright bee hum: \u13\'0dPrithee, my brother, \u13\'0dInto my garden come!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d3\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Sic transit gloria mundi,"\u13\'0d"How doth the busy bee,"\u13\'0d"Dum vivimus vivamus,"\u13\'0dI stay mine enemy!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh "veni, vidi, vici!"\u13\'0dOh caput cap-a-pie!\u13\'0dAnd oh "memento mori"\u13\'0dWhen I am far from thee!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHurrah for Peter Parley!\u13\'0dHurrah for Daniel Boone!\u13\'0dThree cheers, sir, for the gentleman\u13\'0dWho first observed the moon!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPeter, put up the sunshine;\u13\'0dPatti, arrange the stars;\u13\'0dTell Luna, tea is waiting,\u13\'0dAnd call your brother Mars!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPut down the apple, Adam,\u13\'0dAnd come away with me,\u13\'0dSo shalt thou have a pippin\u13\'0dFrom off my father's tree!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI climb the "Hill of Science,"\u13\'0dI "view the landscape o'er;"\u13\'0dSuch transcendental prospect,\u13\'0dI ne'er beheld before!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnto the Legislature\u13\'0dMy country bids me go;\u13\'0dI'll take my india rubbers,\u13\'0dIn case the wind should blow!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDuring my education,\u13\'0dIt was announced to me\u13\'0dThat gravitation, stumbling,\u13\'0dFell from an apple tree!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe earth upon an axis\u13\'0dWas once supposed to turn,\u13\'0dBy way of a gymnastic\u13\'0dIn honor of the sun!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt was the brave Columbus,\u13\'0dA sailing o'er the tide,\u13\'0dWho notified the nations\u13\'0dOf where I would reside!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMortality is fatal --\u13\'0dGentility is fine,\u13\'0dRascality, heroic,\u13\'0dInsolvency, sublime!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur Fathers being weary,\u13\'0dLaid down on Bunker Hill;\u13\'0dAnd tho' full many a morning,\u13\'0dYet they are sleeping still, --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe trumpet, sir, shall wake them,\u13\'0dIn dreams I see them rise,\u13\'0dEach with a solemn musket\u13\'0dA marching to the skies!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA coward will remain, Sir,\u13\'0dUntil the fight is done;\u13\'0dBut an immortal hero\u13\'0dWill take his hat, and run!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGood bye, Sir, I am going;\u13\'0dMy country calleth me;\u13\'0dAllow me, Sir, at parting,\u13\'0dTo wipe my weeping e'e.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn token of our friendship\u13\'0dAccept this "Bonnie Doon,"\u13\'0dAnd when the hand that plucked it\u13\'0dHath passed beyond the moon,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe memory of my ashes\u13\'0dWill consolation be;\u13\'0dThen, farewell, Tuscarora,\u13\'0dAnd farewell, Sir, to thee!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d4\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn this wondrous sea\u13\'0dSailing silently,\u13\'0dHo! Pilot, ho!\u13\'0dKnowest thou the shore\u13\'0dWhere no breakers roar --\u13\'0dWhere the storm is o'er?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn the peaceful west\u13\'0dMany the sails at rest --\u13\'0dThe anchors fast --\u13\'0dThither I pilot thee --\u13\'0dLand Ho! Eternity!\u13\'0dAshore at last!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d5\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI have a Bird in spring\u13\'0dWhich for myself doth sing --\u13\'0dThe spring decoys.\u13\'0dAnd as the summer nears --\u13\'0dAnd as the Rose appears,\u13\'0dRobin is gone.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYet do I not repine\u13\'0dKnowing that Bird of mine\u13\'0dThough flown --\u13\'0dLearneth beyond the sea\u13\'0dMelody new for me\u13\'0dAnd will return.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFast is a safer hand\u13\'0dHeld in a truer Land\u13\'0dAre mine --\u13\'0dAnd though they now depart,\u13\'0dTell I my doubting heart\u13\'0dThey're thine.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn a serener Bright,\u13\'0dIn a more golden light\u13\'0dI see\u13\'0dEach little doubt and fear,\u13\'0dEach little discord here\u13\'0dRemoved.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen will I not repine,\u13\'0dKnowing that Bird of mine\u13\'0dThough flown\u13\'0dShall in a distant tree\u13\'0dBright melody for me\u13\'0dReturn.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d6\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrequently the wood are pink --\u13\'0dFrequently are brown.\u13\'0dFrequently the hills undress\u13\'0dBehind my native town.\u13\'0dOft a head is crested I was wont to see --\u13\'0dAnd as oft a cranny Where it used to be --\u13\'0dAnd the Earth -- they tell me --\u13\'0dOn its Axis turned!\u13\'0dWonderful Rotation!\u13\'0dBy but twelve performed!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d7\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe feet of people walking home With gayer sandals go - The Crocus -- till she rises The Vassal of the snow -- The lips at Hallelujah Long years of practise bore Till bye and bye these Bargemen Walked singing on the shore.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPearls are the Diver's farthings Extorted from the Sea -- Pinions -- the Seraph's wagon Pedestrian once -- as we -- Night is the morning's Canvas Larceny -- legacy -- Death, but our rapt attention To Immortality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy figures fail to tell me How far the Village lies - Whose peasants are the Angels -- Whose Cantons dot the skies -- My Classics veil their faces -- My faith that Dark adores -- Which from its solemn abbeys Such resurection pours. There is a word Which bears a sword Can pierce an armed man -- It hurls its barbed syllables And is mute again -- But where it fell The saved will tell On patriotic day, Some epauletted Brother Gave his breath away.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWherever runs the breathless sun -- Wherever roams the day -- There is its noiseless onset -- There is its victory! Behold the keenest marksman! The most accomplished shot! Time's sublimest target Is a soul "forgot!"\u13\'0d\u13\'0d9\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThrough lane it lay -- through bramble -- Through clearing and through wood -- Banditti often passed us Upon the lonely road.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe wolf came peering curious -- The owl looked puzzled down -- The serpent's satin figure Glid stealthily along --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe tempests touched our garments -- The lightning's poinards gleamed -- Fierce from the Crag above us The hungry Vulture screamed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe satyr's fingers beckoned -- The valley murmured "Come" -- These were the mates -- This was the road Those children fluttered home. 10\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy wheel is in the dark! I cannot see a spoke Yet know its dripping feet Go round and round.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy foot is on the Tide! An unfrequented road -- Yet have all roads A clearing at the end --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome have resigned the Loom -- Some in the busy tomb Find quaint employ --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome with new -- stately feet -- Pass royal through the gate -- Flinging the problem back At you and I!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d11\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI never told the buried gold Upon the hill -- that lies - I saw the sun -- his plunder done Crouch low to guard his prize.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe stood as near As stood you here -- A pace had been between -- Did but a snake bisect the brake My life had forfeit been.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat was a wondrous booty -- I hope 'twas honest gained. Those were the fairest ingots That ever kissed the spade!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhether to keep the secret -- Whether to reveal -- Whether as I ponder Kidd will sudden sail --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould a shrewd advise me We might e'en divide -- Should a shrewd betray me -- Atropos decide!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d12\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe morns are meeker than they were -- The nuts are getting brown -- The berry's cheek is plumper -- The Rose is out of town.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Maple wears a gayer scarf -- The field a scarlet gown -- Lest I should be old fashioned I'll put a trinket on.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d13\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSleep is supposed to be By souls of sanity The shutting of the eye.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSleep is the station grand Down which, on either hand The hosts of witness stand!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMorn is supposed to be By people of degree The breaking of the Day.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMorning has not occurred!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat shall Aurora be -- East of Eternity -- One with the banner gay -- One in the red array -- That is the break of Day!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d14\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne Sister have I in our house, And one, a hedge away. There's only one recorded, But both belong to me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne came the road that I came -- And wore my last year's gown -- The other, as a bird her nest, Builded our hearts among.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe did not sing as we did -- It was a different tune -- Herself to her a music As Bumble bee of June.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToday is far from Childhood -- But up and down the hills I held her hand the tighter -- Which shortened all the miles --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd still her hum The years among, Deceives the Butterfly; Still in her Eye The Violets lie Mouldered this many May.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI spilt the dew -- But took the morn -- I chose this single star From out the wide night's numbers -- Sue - forevermore!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d15 The Guest is gold and crimson -- An Opal guest and gray -- Of Ermine is his doublet -- His Capuchin gay --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe reaches town at nightfall -- He stops at every door -- Who looks for him at morning I pray him too -- explore The Lark's pure territory -- Or the Lapwing's shore!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d16\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI would distil a cup, And bear to all my friends, Drinking to her no more astir, By beck, or burn, or moor!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d17\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBaffled for just a day}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
or two -- Embarrassed -- not afraid -- Encounter in my garden An unexpected Maid.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe beckons, and the woods start -She nods, and all begin -- Surely, such a country I was never in!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d18\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Gentian weaves her fringes -- The Maple's loom is red -- My departing blossoms Obviate parade. A brief, but patient illness -- An hour to prepare, And one below this morning Is where the angels are -It was a short procession, The Bobolink was there -- An aged Bee addressed us -- And then we knelt in prayer -- We trust that she was willing -- We ask that we may be. Summer -- Sister -- Seraph! Let us go with thee!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn the name of the Bee -- And of the Butterfly -- And of the Breeze -- Amen!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d19\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA sepal, petal, and a thorn Upon a common summer's morn -- A flask of Dew -- A Bee or two -- A Breeze -- a caper in the trees -- And I'm a Rose!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d20\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDistrustful of the Gentian -- And just to turn away, The fluttering of her fringes Child my perfidy -- Weary for my ---------- I will singing go -- I shall not feel the sleet -- then -- I shall not fear the snow.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFlees so the phantom meadow Before the breathless Bee -- So bubble brooks in deserts On Ears that dying lie -- Burn so the Evening Spires To Eyes that Closing go -- Hangs so distant Heaven -- To a hand below.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d21\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe lose -- because we win -- Gamblers -- recollecting which Toss their dice again!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d22\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll these my banners be. I sow my pageantry In May -- It rises train by train -- Then sleeps in state again -- My chancel -- all the plain Today.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo lose -- if one can find again -- To miss -- if one shall meet -- The Burglar cannot rob -- then -- The Broker cannot cheat. So build the hillocks gaily Thou little spade of mine Leaving nooks for Daisy And for Columbine -- You and I the secret Of the Crocus know -- Let us chant it softly -- "There is no more snow!"\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo him who keeps an Orchis' heart -The swamps are pink with June. I had a guinea golden - I lost it in the sand -- And tho' the sum was simple And pounds were in the land -- Still, had it such a value Unto my frugal eye -- That when I could not find it -- I sat me down to sigh.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI had a crimson Robin -- Who sang full many a day But when the woods were painted, He, too, did fly away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTime brought me other Robins -- Their ballads were the same -- Still, for my missing Troubador I kept the "house at hame."\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI had a star in heaven -- One "Pleiad" was its name -- And when I was not heeding, It wandered from the same. And tho' the skies are crowded -- And all the night ashine - I do not care about it -- Since none of them are mine.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy story has a moral -- I have a missing friend -"Pleiad" its name, and Robin, And guinea in the sand. And when this mournful ditty Accompanied with tear -- Shall meet the eye of traitor In country far from here -- Grant that repentance solemn May seize upon his mind -- And he no consolation Beneath the sun may find. There is a morn by men unseen -- Whose maids upon remoter green Keep their Seraphic May -- And all day long, with dance and game, And gambol I may never name -- Employ their holiday.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHere to light measure, move the feet Which walk no more the village street -- Nor by the wood are found -- Here are the birds that sought the sun When last year's distaff idle hung And summer's brows were bound.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNe'er saw I such a wondrous scene -- Ne'er such a ring on such a green -- Nor so serene array -- As if the stars some summer night Should swing their cups of Chrysolite -- And revel till the day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike thee to dance -- like thee to sing -- People upon the mystic green -- I ask, each new May Morn. I wait thy far, fantastic bells -- Unto the different dawn!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d25\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe slept beneath a tree -- Remembered but by me. I touched her Cradle mute -- She recognized the foot -- Put on her carmine suit And see!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d26\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's all I have to bring today -- This, and my heart beside -- This, and my heart, and all the fields -- And all the meadows wide -- Be sure you count -- should I forget Some one the sum could tell -- This, and my heart, and all the Bees Which in the Clover dwell.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d27\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMorns like these -- we parted -- Noons like these -- she rose -- Fluttering first -- then firmer To her fair repose.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNever did she lisp it -- It was not for me -- She -- was mute from transport -- I -- from agony --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill -- the evening nearing One the curtains drew -- Quick! A Sharper rustling! And this linnet flew!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d28\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo has a Daisy vanished From the fields today -- So tiptoed many a slipper To Paradise away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOozed so in crimson bubbles Day's departing tide -- Blooming -- tripping -- flowing Are ye then with God?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d29\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf those I loved were lost The Crier's voice would tell me -- If those I loved were found The bells of Ghent would ring --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDid those I loved repose The Daisy would impel me. Philip -- when bewildered Bore his riddle in!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d30\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAdrift! A little boat adrift! And night is coming down! Will no one guide a little boat Unto the nearest town?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo Sailors say -- on yesterday -- Just as the dusk was brown One little boat gave up its strife And gurgled down and down.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo angels say -- on yesterday -- Just as the dawn was red One little boat -- o'erspent with gales -- Retrimmed its masts -- redecked its sails -- And shot -- exultant on!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d31\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSummer for thee, grant I may be When Summer days are flown! Thy music still, when Whipporwill And Oriole -- are done!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor thee to bloom, I'll skip the tomb And row my blossoms o'er! Pray gather me -- Anemone -- Thy flower -- forevermore! 32\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Roses cease to bloom, Sir, And Violets are done -- When Bumblebees in solemn flight Have passed beyond the Sun -- The hand that paused to gather Upon this Summer's day Will idle lie -- in Auburn -- Then take my flowers -- pray!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d33\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf recollecting were forgetting, Then I remember not. And if forgetting, recollecting, How near I had forgot. And if to miss, were merry, And to mourn, were gay, How very blithe the fingers That gathered this, Today!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d34\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGarland for Queens, may be -- Laurels -- for rare degree Of soul or sword. Ah -- but remembering me -- Ah -- but remembering thee -- Nature in chivalry -- Nature in charity -- Nature in equity -- This Rose ordained! Nobody knows this little Rose -- It might a pilgrim be Did I not take it from the ways And lift it up to thee. Only a Bee will miss it - Only a Butterfly, Hastening from far journey -- On its breast to lie -- Only a Bird will wonder -- Only a Breeze will sigh - Ah Little Rose -- how easy For such as thee to die!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d36 Snow flakes.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI counted till they danced so Their slippers leaped the town, And then I took a pencil To note the rebels down. And then they grew so jolly I did resign the prig, And ten of my once stately toes Are marshalled for a jig!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d37\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBefore the ice is in the pools -- Before the skaters go, Or any check at nightfall Is tarnished by the snow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBefore the fields have finished, Before the Christmas tree, Wonder upon wonder Will arrive to me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat we touch the hems of On a summer's day -- What is only walking Just a bridge away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat which sings so -- speaks so -When there's no one here -- Will the frock I wept in Answer me to wear?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d38\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy such and such an offering To Mr. So and So, The web of live woven -- So martyrs albums show!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d39\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt did not surprise me -- So I said -- or thought -- She will stir her pinions And the nest forgot,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTraverse broader forests -- Build in gayer boughs, Breathe in Ear more modern God's old fashioned vows --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis was but a Birdling -What and if it be One within my bosom Had departed me?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis was but a story -- What and if indeed There were just such coffin In the heart instead? When I count the seeds That are sown beneath, To bloom so, bye and bye --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen I con the people Lain so low, To be received as high -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen I believe the garden Mortal shall not see -- Pick by faith its blossom And avoid its Bee, I can spare this summer, unreluctantly.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d41\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI robbed the Woods -- The trusting Woods. The unsuspecting Trees Brought out their Burs and mosses My fantasy to please. I scanned their trinkets curious -- I grasped -- I bore away -- What will the solemn Hemlock -- What will the Oak tree say?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d42\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Day! Help! Help! Another Day! Your prayers, oh Passer by! From such a common ball as this Might date a Victory! From marshallings as simple The flags of nations swang. Steady -- my soul: What issues Upon thine arrow hang!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d43\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould live -- did live -- Could die -- did die -- Could smile upon the whole Through faith in one he met not, To introduce his soul.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould go from scene familiar To an untraversed spot -- Could contemplate the journey With unpuzzled heart -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuch trust had one among us, Among us not today -- We who saw the launching Never sailed the Bay!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d44\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf she had been the Mistletoe And I had been the Rose -- How gay upon your table My velvet life to close - Since I am of the Druid, And she is of the dew -- I'll deck Tradition's buttonhole -- And send the Rose to you.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d45\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere's something quieter than sleep Within this inner room! It wears a sprig upon its breast -- And will not tell its name.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome touch it, and some kiss it -- Some chafe its idle hand -- It has a simple gravity I do not understand!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI would not weep if I were they -- How rude in one to sob! Might scare the quiet fairy Back to her native wood! While simple-hearted neighbors Chat of the "Early dead" -- We -- prone to periphrasis Remark that Birds have fled!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d46\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI keep my pledge. I was not called -- Death did not notice me. I bring my Rose. I plight again, By every sainted Bee -- By Daisy called from hillside -- by Bobolink from lane. Blossom and I -- Her oath, and mine -- Will surely come again.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d47\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHeart! We will forget him! You and I -- tonight! You may forget the warmth he gave -- I will forget the light!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen you have done, pray tell me That I may straight begin! Haste! lest while you're lagging I remember him!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d48\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOnce more, my now bewildered Dove Bestirs}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
her puzzled wings Once more her mistress, on the deep Her troubled question flings -- Thrice to the floating casement The Patriarch's bird returned, Courage! My brave Columbia! There may yet be land\u13\'0d\u13\'0d49\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI never lost as much but twice, And that was in the sod. Twice have I stood a beggar Before the door of God!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAngels -- twice descending Reimbursed my store -- Burglar! Banker -- Father! I am poor once more!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d50\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI haven't told my garden yet -- Lest that should conquer me. I haven't quite the strength now To break it to the Bee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI will not name it in the street For shops would stare at me -- That one so shy -- so ignorant Should have the face to die.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe hillsides must not know it -- Where I have rambled so -- Nor tell the loving forests The day that I shall go -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor lisp it at the table -Nor heedless by the way Hint that within the Riddle One will walk today -- I often passed the village When going home from school -- And wondered what they did there -- And why it was so still -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI did not know the year then -- In which my call would come -- Earlier, by the Dial, Than the rest have gone.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's stiller than the sundown. It's cooler than the dawn -- The Daisies dare to come here -- And birds can flutter down --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo when you are tired -Or perplexed -- or cold -- Trust the loving promise Underneath the mould, Cry "it's I," "take Dollie," And I will enfold!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d52\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhether my bark went down at sea -- Whether she met with gales -- Whether to isles enchanted She bent her docile sails --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy what mystic mooring She is held today -- This is the errand of the eye Out upon the Bay.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d53 Taken from men -- this morning -- Carried by men today -- Met by the Gods with banners -- Who marshalled her away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne little maid -- from playmates -- One little mind from school -- There must be guests in Eden -- All the rooms are full --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFar -- as the East from Even -- Dim -- as the border star -- Courtiers quaint, in Kingdoms Our departed are.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d54\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I should die, And you should live -- And time should gurgle on -- And morn should beam -- And noon should burn - As it has usual done - If Birds should build as early And Bees as bustling go -- One might depart at option From enterprise below! 'Tis sweet to know that stocks will stand When we with Daisies lie -- That Commerce will continue -- And Trades as briskly fly -- It makes the parting tranquil And keeps the soul serene -- That gentlemen so sprightly Conduct the pleasing scene!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d55\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy Chivalries as tiny, A Blossom, or a Book, The seeds of smiles are planted -- Which blossom in the dark. If I should cease to bring a Rose Upon a festal day, 'Twill be because beyond the Rose I have been called away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I should cease to take the names My buds commemorate -- 'Twill be because Death's finger Claps my murmuring lip!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d57\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo venerate the simple days Which lead the seasons by, Needs but to remember That from you or I, They may take the trifle Termed mortality!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d58\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDelayed till she had ceased to know -- Delayed till in its vest of snow Her loving bosom lay -- An hour behind the fleeting breath -- Later by just an hour than Death -- Oh lagging Yesterday!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould she have guessed that it would be -- Could but a crier of the joy Have climbed the distant hill -- Had not the bliss so slow a pace Who knows but this surrendered face Were undefeated still?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh if there may departing be Any forgot by Victory In her imperial round -- Show them this meek appareled thing That could not stop to be a king -- Doubtful if it be crowned!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d59\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA little East of Jordan, Evangelists record, A Gymnast and an Angel Did wrestle long and hard --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill morning touching mountain -- And Jacob, waxing strong, The Angel begged permission To Breakfast -- to return --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot so, said cunning Jacob! "I will not let thee go Except thou bless me" -- Stranger! The which acceded to -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLight swung the silver fleeces "Peniel" Hills beyond, And the bewildered Gymnast Found he had worsted God!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d60\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike her the Saints retire, In their Chapeaux of fire, Martial as she!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike her the Evenings steal Purple and Cochineal After the Day!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Departed" -- both -- they say! i.e. gathered away, Not found,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dArgues the Aster still -Reasons the Daffodil Profound!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d61\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPapa above! Regard a Mouse O'erpowered by the Cat! Reserve within thy kingdom A "Mansion" for the Rat!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSnug in seraphic Cupboards To nibble all the day While unsuspecting Cycles Wheel solemnly away!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d62\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Sown in dishonor"! Ah! Indeed! May this "dishonor" be? If I were half so fine myself I'd notice nobody!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Sown in corruption"! Not so fast! Apostle is askew! Corinthians 1. 15. narrates A Circumstance or two!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d63\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf pain for peace prepares Lo, what "Augustan" years Our feet await! If springs from winter rise, Can the Anemones Be reckoned up?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf night stands fast -- then noon To gird us for the sun, What gaze!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen from a thousand skies On our developed eyes Noons blaze!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d64\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome Rainbow -- coming from the Fair! Some Vision of the World Cashmere -- I confidently see! Or else a Peacock's purple Train Feather by feather -- on the plain Fritters itself away!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe dreamy Butterflies bestir! Lethargic pools resume the whir Of last year's sundered tune! From some old Fortress on the sun Baronial Bees -- march -- one by one -- In murmuring platoon!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Robins stand as thick today As flakes of snow stood yesterday -- On fence -- and Roof -- and Twig! The Orchis binds her feather on For her old lover - Don the Sun! Revisiting the Bog!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithout Commander! Countless! Still! The Regiments of Wood and Hill In bright detachment stand! Behold! Whose Multitudes are these? The children of whose turbaned seas -- Or what Circassian Land? I can't tell you -- but you feel it -- Nor can you tell me -- Saints, with ravished slate and pencil Solve our April Day!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSweeter than a vanished frolic From a vanished green! Swifter than the hoofs of Horsemen Round a Ledge of dream!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dModest, let us walk among it With our faces veiled -- As they say polite Archangels Do in meeting God!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot for me -- to prate about it! Not for you -- to say To some fashionable Lady "Charming April Day"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRather -- Heaven's "Peter Parley"! By which Children slow To sublimer Recitation Are prepared to go!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d66\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo from the mould Scarlet and Gold Many a Bulb will rise -- Hidden away, cunningly, From sagacious eyes.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo from Cocoon Many a Worm Leap so Highland gay, Peasants like me, Peasants like Thee Gaze perplexedly! Success is counted sweetest By those who ne'er succeed. To comprehend a nectar Requires sorest need.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot one of all the purple Host Who took the Flag today Can tell the definition So clear of Victory\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs he defeated -- dying -- On whose forbidden ear The distant strains of triumph Burst agonized and clear!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d68\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAmbition cannot find him. Affection doesn't know How many leagues of nowhere Lie between them now.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYesterday, undistinguished! Eminent Today For our mutual hone, Immortality!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d69\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLow at my problem bending, Another problem comes -- Larger than mine -- Serener -- Involving statelier sums.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI check my busy pencil, My figures file away. Wherefore, my baffled fingers They perplexity? "Arcturus" is his other name -- I'd rather call him "Star." It's very mean of Science To go and interfere!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI slew a worm the other day -- A "Savant" passing by Murmured "Resurgam" -- "Centipede"! "Oh Lord -- how frail are we"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI pull a flower from the woods -- A monster with a glass Computes the stamens in a breath -And has her in a "class"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhereas I took the Butterfly Aforetime in my hat -- He sits erect in "Cabinets" -- The Clover bells forgot.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat once was "Heaven" Is "Zenith" now -- Where I proposed to go When Time's brief masquerade was done Is mapped and charted too.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat if the poles should frisk about And stand upon their heads! I hope I'm ready for "the worst" -- Whatever prank betides!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps the "Kingdom of Heaven's" changed -I hope the "Children" there Won't be "new fashioned" when I come -- And laugh at me -- and stare --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI hope the Father in the skies Will lift his little girl -- Old fashioned -- naught -- everything -- Over the stile of "Pearl." A throe upon the features -- A hurry in the breath -- An ecstasy of parting Denominated "Death" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn anguish at the mention Which when to patience grown, I've known permission given To rejoin its own.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d72\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGlowing is her Bonnet, Glowing is her Cheek, Glowing is her Kirtle, Yet she cannot speak.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBetter as the Daisy From the Summer hill Vanish unrecorded Save by tearful rill --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSave by loving sunrise Looking for her face. Save by feet unnumbered Pausing at the place.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d73\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho never lost, are unprepared A Coronet to find! Who never thirsted Flagons, and Cooling Tamarind!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho never climbed the weary league -- Can such a foot explore The purple territories On Pizarro's shore?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow many Legions overcome -- The Emperor will say? How many Colors taken On Revolution Day?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow many Bullets bearest? Hast Thou the Royal scar? Angels! Write "Promoted" On this Soldier's brow!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d74\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Lady red -- amid the Hill Her annual secret keeps! A Lady white, within the Field In placid Lily sleeps!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe tidy Breezes, with their Brooms -- Sweep vale -- and hill -- and tree! Prithee, My pretty Housewives! Who may expected be?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Neighbors do not yet suspect! The Woods exchange a smile! Orchard, and Buttercup, and Bird -- In such a little while!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd yet, how still the Landscape stands! How nonchalant the Hedge! As if the "Resurrection" Were nothing very strange!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d75\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe died at play, Gambolled away Her lease of spotted hours, Then sank as gaily as a Turn Upon a Couch of flowers.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer ghost strolled softly o'er the hill Yesterday, and Today, Her vestments as the silver fleece -- Her countenance as spray.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d76\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExultation is the going Of an inland soul to sea, Past the houses -- past the headlands -- Into deep Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBred as we, among the mountains, Can the sailor understand}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The divine intoxication Of the first league out from land?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d77\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI never hear the word "escape" Without a quicker blood, A sudden expectation A flying attitude!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI never hear of prisons broad By soldiers battered down, But I tug childish at my bars Only to fail again!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d78\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA poor -- torn heart -- a tattered heart -- That sat it down to rest -- Nor noticed that the Ebbing Day Flowed silver to the West -- Nor noticed Night did soft descend -Nor Constellation burn - Intent upon the vision Of latitudes unknown.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe angels -- happening that way This dusty heart espied - Tenderly took it up from toil And carried it to God -- There -- sandals for the Barefoot -- There -- gathered from the gales -- Do the blue havens by the hand Lead the wandering Sails.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d79\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGoing to Heaven! I don't know when -- Pray do not ask me how! Indeed I'm too astonished To think of answering you! Going to Heaven! How dim it sounds! And yet it will be done As sure as flocks go home at night Unto the Shepherd's arm!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps you're going too! Who knows? If you should get there first Save just a little space for me Close to the two I lost - The smallest "Robe" will fit me And just a bit of "Crown" -- For you know we do not mind our dress When we are going home --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'm glad I don't believe it For it would stop my breath -- And I'd like to look a little more At such a curious Earth! I'm glad they did believe it Whom I have never found Since the might Autumn afternoon I left them in the ground. Our lives are Swiss -- So still -- so Cool -- Till some odd afternoon The Alps neglect their Curtains And we look farther on!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dItaly stands the other side! While like a guard between -- The solemn Alps -- The siren Alps Forever intervene!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d81\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe should not mind so small a flower -- Except it quiet bring Our little garden that we lost Back to the Lawn again.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo spicy her Carnations nod -- So drunken, reel her Bees -- So silver steal a hundred flutes From out a hundred trees --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat whoso sees this little flower By faith may clear behold The Bobolinks around the throne And Dandelions gold.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d82\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhose cheek is this? What rosy face Has lost a blush today? I found her -- "pleiad" -- in the woods And bore her safe away. Robins, in the tradition Did cover such with leaves, But which the cheek -- And which the pall My scrutiny deceives.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d83\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHeart, not so heavy as mine Wending late home -- As it passed my window Whistled itself a tune - A careless snatch -- a ballad -- A ditty of the street -- Yet to my irritated Ear An Anodyne so sweet - It was as if a Bobolink Sauntering this way Carolled, and paused, and carolled - Then bubbled slow away! It was as if a chirping brook Upon a dusty way -- Set bleeding feet to minuets Without the knowing why! Tomorrow, night will come again -- Perhaps, weary and sore -- Ah Bugle! By my window I pray you pass once more.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d84\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer breast is fit for pearls, But I was not a "Diver" -- Her brow is fit for thrones But I have not a crest. Her heart is fit for home -- I -- a Sparrow -- build there Sweet of twigs and twine My perennial nest. "They have not chosen me," he said, "But I have chosen them!" Brave -- Broken hearted statement -- Uttered in Bethlehem!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could not have told it, But since Jesus dared -Sovereign! Know a Daisy They dishonor shared!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d86\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSouth Winds jostle them -- Bumblebees come -- Hover -- hesitate -- Drink, and are gone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dButterflies pause On their passage Cashmere -- I -- softly plucking, Present them here!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d87\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA darting fear -- a pomp -- a tear -- A waking on a morn To find that what one waked for, Inhales the different dawn.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d88\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs by the dead we love to sit, Become so wondrous dear -- As for the lost we grapple Tho' all the rest are here --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn broken mathematics We estimate our prize Vast -- in its fading ration To our penurious eyes!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d89\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome things that fly there be -- Birds -- Hours -- the Bumblebee -- Of these no Elegy.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome things that stay there be -- Grief -- Hills -- Eternity -- Nor this behooveth me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere are that resting, rise. Can I expound the skies? How still the Riddle lies!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d90\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithin my reach! I could have touched! I might have chanced that way! Soft sauntered thro' the village -- Sauntered as soft away! So unsuspected Violets Within the meadows go -- Too late for striving fingers That passed, an hour ago!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d91\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo bashful when I spied her! So pretty -- so ashamed! So hidden in her leaflets Lest anybody find --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo breathless till I passed here -- So helpless when I turned And bore her struggling, blushing, Her simple haunts beyond!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor whom I robbed the Dingle -- For whom I betrayed the Dell -- Many, will doubtless ask me, But I shall never tell!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d92\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy friend must be a Bird -- Because it flies! Mortal, my friend must be, Because it dies! Barbs has it, like a Bee! Ah, curious friend! Thou puzzlest me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d93\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWent up a year this evening! I recollect it well! Amid no bells nor bravoes The bystanders will tell! Cheerful -- as to the village -- Tranquil -- as to repose - Chastened -- as to the Chapel This humble Tourist rose! Did not talk of returning! Alluded to no time When, were the gales propitious -- We might look for him! Was grateful for the Roses In life's diverse bouquet - Talked softly of new species To pick another day; Beguiling thus the wonder The wondrous nearer drew -- Hands bustled at the moorings -- The crown respectful grew -- Ascended from our vision To Countenances new! A Difference -- A Daisy -- Is all the rest I knew!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d94\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAngels, in the early morning May be seen the Dews among, Stooping -- plucking -- smiling -- flying -- Do the Buds to them belong?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAngels, when the sun is hottest May be seen the sands among, Stooping -- plucking -- sighing -- flying -- Parched the flowers they bear along.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d95\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy nosegays are for Captives -- Dim -- expectant eyes, Fingers denied the plucking, Patient till Paradise.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo such, if they should whisper Of morning and the moor, They bear no other errand, And I, no other prayer.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d96\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSexton! My Master's sleeping here. Pray lead me to his bed! I came to build the Bird's nest, And sow the Early seed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat when the snow creeps slowly From off his chamber door -- Daisies point the way there -- And the Troubadour.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d97\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe rainbow never tells me That gust and storm are by, Yet is she more convincing Than Philosophy.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy flowers turn from Forums -- Yet eloquent declare What Cato couldn't prove me Except the birds were here!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d98\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne dignity delays for all -- One mitred Afternoon -- None can avoid this purple -- None evade this Crown!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCoach, it insures, and footmen -- Chamber, and state, and throng -- Bells, also, in the village As we ride grand along!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat dignified Attendants! What service when we pause! How loyally at parting Their hundred hats they raise!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer pomp surpassing ermine When simple You, and I, Present our meek escutcheon And claim the rank to die! 99\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNew feet within my garden go -- New fingers stir the sod - A Troubadour upon the Elm Betrays the solitude.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNew children play upon the green -- New Weary sleep below -- And still the pensive Spring returns -And still the punctual snow!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 100-199\u13\'0d\u13\'0d100\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA science -- so the Savants say, "Comparative Anatomy" -- By which a single bone -- Is made a secret to unfold Of some rare tenant of the mold, Else perished in the stone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo to the eye prospective led, This meekest flower of the mead Upon a winter's day, Stands representative in gold Of Rose and Lily, manifold, And countless Butterfly!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d101\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWill there really be a "Morning"? Is there such a thing as "Day"? Could I see it from the mountains If I were as tall as they?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHas it feet like Water lilies? Has it feathers like a Bird? Is it brought from famous countries Of which I have never heard?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh some Scholar! Oh some Sailor! Oh some Wise Men from the skies! Please to tell a little Pilgrim Where the place called "Morning" lies!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d102\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGreat Caesar! Condescend The Daisy, to receive, Gathered by Cato's Daughter, With your majestic leave!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d103\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI have a King, who does not speak -So -- wondering -- thro' the hours meek I trudge the day away -- Half glad when it is night, and sleep, If, haply, thro' a dream, to peep In parlors, shut by day.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd if I do -- when morning comes -- It is as if a hundred drums Did round my pillow roll, And shouts fill all my Childish sky, And Bells keep saying "Victory" From steeples in my soul!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd if I don't -- the little Bird Within the Orchard, is not heard, And I omit to pray "Father, thy will be done" today For my will goes the other way, And it were perjury!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d104\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhere I have lost, I softer tread -- I sow sweet flower from garden bed -- I pause above that vanished head And mourn.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhom I have lost, I pious guard From accent harsh, or ruthless word -- Feeling as if their pillow heard, Though stone!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen I have lost, you'll know by this -- A Bonnet black -- A dusk surplice -A little tremor in my voice Like this!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhy, I have lost, the people know Who dressed in flocks of purest snow Went home a century ago Next Bliss!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d105\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo hang our head -- ostensibly -- And subsequent, to find That such was not the posture Of our immortal mind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAffords the sly presumption That in so dense a fuzz -- You -- too -- take Cobweb attitudes Upon a plane of Gauze!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d106\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Daisy follows soft the Sun -- And when his golden walk is done -Sits shyly at his feet -- He -- waking -- finds the flower there -- Wherefore -- Marauder -- art thou here? Because, Sir, love is sweet!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe are the Flower -- Thou the Sun! Forgive us, if as days decline -- We nearer steal to Thee! Enamored of the parting West -- The peace -- the flight -- the Amethyst -- Night's possibility!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d107 'Twas such a little -- little boat That toddled down the bay! 'Twas such a gallant -- gallant sea That beckoned it away!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas such a greedy, greedy wave That licked it from the Coast -- Nor ever guessed the stately sails My little craft was lost!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d108\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSurgeons}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
must be very careful When they take the knife! Underneath their fine incisions Stirs the Culprit -- Life!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d109\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy a flower -- By a letter -- By a nimble love -- If I weld the Rivet faster -- Final fast -- above --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNever mind my breathless Anvil! Never mind Repose! Never mind the sooty faces Tugging at the Forge!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d110\u13\'0d\u13\'0dArtists wrestled here! Lo, a tint Cashmere! Lo, a Rose! Student of the Year! For the easel here Say Repose! The Bee is not afraid of me. I know the Butterfly. The pretty people in the Woods Receive me cordially --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Brooks laugh louder when I come -- The Breezes madder play; Wherefore mine eye thy silver mists, Wherefore, Oh Summer's Day?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d112\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhere bells no more affright the morn -- Where scrabble never comes -- Where very nimble Gentlemen Are forced to keep their rooms --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhere tired Children placid sleep Thro' Centuries of noon This place is Bliss -- this town is Heaven -- Please, Pater, pretty soon!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Oh could we climb where Moses stood, And view the Landscape o'er" Not Father's bells -- nor Factories, Could scare us any more!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d113\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur share of night to bear -- Our share of morning -- Our blank in bliss to fill Our blank in scorning -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHere a star, and there a star, Some lose their way! Here a mist, and there a mist, Afterwards -- Day! Good night, because we must, How intricate the dust! I would go, to know! Oh incognito! Saucy, Saucy Seraph To elude me so! Father! they won't tell me, Won't you tell them to?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d115\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat Inn is this Where for the night Peculiar Traveller comes? Who is the Landlord? Where the maids? Behold, what curious rooms! No ruddy fires on the hearth -- No brimming Tankards flow -- Necromancer! Landlord! Who are these below?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d116\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI had some things that I called mine -- And God, that he called his, Till, recently a rival Claim Disturbed these amities.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe property, my garden, Which having sown with care, He claims the pretty acre, And sends a Bailiff there.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe station of the parties Forbids publicity, But Justice is sublimer Than arms, or pedigree.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'll institute an "Action" -- I'll vindicate the law -- Jove! Choose your counsel -- I retain "Shaw"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d117\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn rags mysterious as these The shining Courtiers go -- Veiling the purple, and the plumes -- Veiling the ermine so.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSmiling, as they request an alms -- At some imposing door! Smiling when we walk barefoot Upon their golden floor!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d118\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy friend attacks my friend! Oh Battle picturesque! Then I turn Soldier too, And he turns Satirist! How martial is this place! Had I a mighty gun I think I'd shoot the human race And then to glory run!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d119\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTalk with prudence to a Beggar Of "Potose," and the mines! Reverently, to the Hungry Of your viands, and your wines!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCautious, hint to any Captive You have passed enfranchised feet! Anecdotes of air in Dungeons Have sometimes proved deadly sweet!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d120\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf this is "fading" Oh let me immediately "fade"! If this is "dying" Bury me, in such a shroud of red! If this is "sleep," On such a night How proud to shut the eye! Good Evening, gentle Fellow men! Peacock presumes to die!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d121\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Watchers hang upon the East, As Beggars revel at a feast By savory Fancy spread -- As brooks in deserts babble sweet On ear too far for the delight, Heaven beguiles the tired.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs that same watcher, when the East Opens the lid of Amethyst And lets the morning go -- That Beggar, when an honored Guest, Those thirsty lips to flagons pressed, Heaven to us, if true.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d122\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA something in a summer's Day As slow her flambeaux burn away Which solemnizes me. A something in a summer's noon -- A depth -- an Azure -- a perfume -- Transcending ecstasy.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd still within a summer's night A something so transporting bright I clap my hands to see -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen veil my too inspecting face Lets such a subtle -- shimmering grace Flutter too far for me -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe wizard fingers never rest -- The purple brook within the breast Still chafes it narrow bed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStill rears the East her amber Flag -- Guides still the sun along the Crag His Caravan of Red --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo looking on -- the night -- the morn Conclude the wonder gay -- And I meet, coming thro' the dews Another summer's Day!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d123\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMany cross the Rhine In this cup of mine. Sip old Frankfort air From my brown Cigar.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d124\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn lands I never saw -- they say Immortal Alps look down -- Whose Bonnets touch the firmament -- Whose Sandals touch the town --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMeek at whose everlasting feet A Myriad Daisy play -- Which, Sir, are you and which am I Upon an August day?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d125\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor each ecstatic instant We must an anguish pay In keen and quivering ration To the ecstasy.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor each beloved hour Sharp pittances of years -- Bitter contested farthings -- And Coffers heaped with Tears!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d126\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo fight aloud, is very brave -- But gallanter, I know Who charge within the bosom The Cavalry of Woe --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho win, and nations do not see -- Who fall -- and none observe -- Whose dying eyes, no Country Regards with patriot love --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe trust, in plumed procession For such, the Angels go -- Rank after Rank, with even feet -- And Uniforms of Snow.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d127\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Houses" -- so the Wise Men tell me -- "Mansions"! Mansions must be warm! Mansions cannot let the tears in, Mansions must exclude the storm!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Many Mansions," by "his Father," I don't know him; snugly built! Could the Children find the way there -- Some, would even trudge tonight!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d128\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBring me the sunset in a cup, Reckon the morning's flagons up And say how many Dew, Tell me how far the morning leaps -Tell me what time the weaver sleeps Who spun the breadth of blue!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWrite me how many notes there be In the new Robin's ecstasy Among astonished boughs -- How many trips the Tortoise makes -- How many cups the Bee partakes, The Debauchee of Dews!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAlso, who laid the Rainbow's piers, Also, who leads the docile spheres By withes of supple blue? Whose fingers string the stalactite -Who counts the wampum of the night To see that none is due?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho built this little Alban House And shut the windows down so close My spirit cannot see? Who'll let me out some gala day With implements to fly away, Passing Pomposity?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d129\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCocoon above! Cocoon below! Stealthy Cocoon, why hide you so What all the world suspect? An hour, and gay on every tree Your secret, perched in ecstasy Defies imprisonment!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn hour in Chrysalis to pass, Then gay above receding grass A Butterfly to go! A moment to interrogate, Then wiser than a "Surrogate," The Universe to know!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d130\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese are the days when Birds come back -- A very few -- a Bird or two -- To take a backward look.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese are the days when skies resume The old -- old sophistries of June -A blue and gold mistake.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh fraud that cannot cheat the Bee -- Almost thy plausibility Induces my belief.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill ranks of seeds their witness bear -- And softly thro' the altered air Hurries a timid leaf.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh Sacrament of summer days, Oh Last Communion in the Haze -- Permit a child to join.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThy sacred emblems to partake -- They consecrated bread to take And thine immortal wine!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d131\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBesides the Autumn poets sing A few prosaic days A little this side of the snow And that side of the Haze --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA few incisive Mornings -- A few Ascetic Eves -- Gone -- Mr. Bryant's "Golden Rod" -- And Mr. Thomson's "sheaves."\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStill, is the bustle in the Brook -- Sealed are the spicy valves -- Mesmeric fingers softly touch The Eyes of many Elves --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps a squirrel may remain -- My sentiments to share -- Grant me, Oh Lord, a sunny mind -- Thy windy will to bear!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d132\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI bring an unaccustomed wine To lips long parching Next to mine, And summon them to drink;\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCrackling with fever, they Essay, I turn my brimming eyes away, And come next hour to look.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe hands still hug the tardy glass -- The lips I would have cooled, alas -Are so superfluous Cold --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI would as soon attempt to warm The bosoms where the frost has lain Ages beneath the mould --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome other thirsty there may be To whom this would have pointed me Had it remained to speak --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so I always bear the cup If, haply, mine may be the drop Some pilgrim thirst to slake --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf, haply, any say to me "Unto the little, unto me," When I at last awake.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d133\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Children bid the Guest "Good Night" And then reluctant turn - My flowers raise their pretty lips -- Then put their nightgowns on.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs children caper when they wake Merry that it is Morn -- My flowers from a hundred cribs Will peep, and prance again.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d134\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps you'd like to buy a flower, But I could never sell -- If you would like to borrow, Until the Daffodil\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnties her yellow Bonnet Beneath the village door, Until the Bees, from Clover rows Their Hock, and Sherry, draw,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhy, I will lend until just then, But not an hour more! 135\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWater, is taught by thirst. Land -- by the Oceans passed. Transport -- by throe -- Peace -- by its battles told -- Love, by Memorial Mold -- Birds, by the Snow.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d136\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHave you got a Brook in your little heart, Where bashful flowers blow, And blushing birds go down to drink, And shadows tremble so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd nobody knows, so still it flows, That any brook is there, And yet your little draught of life Is daily drunken there -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhy, look out for the little brook in March, When the rivers overflow, And the snows come hurrying from the fills, And the bridges often go --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd later, in August it may be -- When the meadows parching lie, Beware, lest this little brook of life, Some burning noon go dry!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d137\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFlowers -- Well -- if anybody Can the ecstasy define -- Half a transport -- half a trouble -- With which flowers humble men: Anybody find the fountain From which floods so contra flow -- I will give him all the Daisies Which upon the hillside blow.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo much pathos in their faces For a simple breast like mine -- Butterflies from St. Domingo Cruising round the purple line -- Have a system of aesthetics -- Far superior to mine.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d138\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPigmy seraphs -- gone astray -- Velvet people from Vevay -- Balles from some lost summer day -- Bees exclusive Coterie --}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Paris could not lay the fold Belted down with Emerald -- Venice could not show a check Of a tint so lustrous meek -- Never such an Ambuscade As of briar and leaf displayed For my little damask maid --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI had rather wear her grace Than an Earl's distinguished face -I had rather dwell like her Than be "Duke of Exeter" -- Royalty enough for me To subdue the Bumblebee.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d139\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSoul, Wilt thou toss again? By just such a hazard Hundreds have lost indeed -- But tens have won an all --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAngel's breathless ballot Lingers to record thee -Imps in eager Caucus Raffle for my Soul!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d140 An altered look about the hills -- A Tyrian light the village fills -- A wider sunrise in the morn -- A deeper twilight on the lawn -- A print of a vermillion foot -- A purple finger on the slope -- A flippant fly upon the pane -- A spider at his trade again -- An added strut in Chanticleer -- A flower expected everywhere -- An axe shrill singing in the woods -- Fern odors on untravelled roads -All this and more I cannot tell -- A furtive look you know as well -- And Nicodemus' Mystery Receives its annual reply!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d141\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome, too fragile for winter winds The thoughtful grave encloses -- Tenderly tucking them in from frost Before their feet are cold.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNever the treasures in her nest The cautious grave exposes, Building where schoolboy dare not look, And sportsman is not bold.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis covert have all the children Early aged, and often cold, Sparrow, unnoticed by the Father -- Lambs for whom time had not a fold.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d142\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhose are the little beds, I asked Which in the valleys lie? Some shook their heads, and others smiled -- And no one made reply. Perhaps they did not hear, I said, I will inquire again -- Whose are the beds -- the tiny beds So thick upon the plain?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Daisy, in the shortest -- A little further on -- Nearest the door -- to wake the Ist -Little Leontoden.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Iris, Sir, and Aster -- Anemone, and Bell -- Bartsia, in the blanket red -- And chubby Daffodil.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMeanwhile, at many cradles Her busy foot she plied -- Humming the quaintest lullaby That ever rocked a child.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHush! Epigea wakens! The Crocus stirs her lids -- Rhodora's cheek is crimson, She's dreaming of the woods!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen turning from them reverent -- Their bedtime 'tis, she said -- The Bumble bees will wake them When April woods are red.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d143\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor every Bird a Nest -- Wherefore in timid quest Some little Wren goes seeking round --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWherefore when boughs are free -Households in every tree -- Pilgrim be found?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps a home too high -- Ah Aristocracy! The little Wren desires -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps of twig so fine -Of twine e'en superfine, Her pride aspires --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lark is not ashamed To build upon the ground Her modest house --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYet who of all the throng Dancing around the sun Does so rejoice?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d144\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe bore it till the simple veins Traced azure on her hand -- Til pleading, round her quiet eyes The purple Crayons stand.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill Daffodils had come and gone I cannot tell the sum, And then she ceased to bear it -- And with the Saints sat down.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo more her patient figure At twilight soft to meet -- No more her timid bonnet Upon the village street -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut Crowns instead, and Courtiers -- And in the midst so fair, Whose but her shy -- immortal face Of whom we're whispering here?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d145\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis heart that broke so long -- These feet that never flagged -- This faith that watched for star in vain, Give gently to the dead -- Hound cannot overtake the Hare That fluttered panting, here -- Nor any schoolboy rob the nest Tenderness builded there.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d146\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn such a night, or such a night, Would anybody care If such a little figure Slipped quiet from its chair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo quiet -- Oh how quiet, That nobody might know But that the little figure Rocked softer -- to and fro --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn such a dawn, or such a dawn -- Would anybody sigh That such a little figure Too sound asleep did lie\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor Chanticleer to wake it -- Or stirring house below -- Or giddy bird in orchard -- Or early task to do?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere was a little figure plump For every little knoll -- Busy needles, and spools of thread -And trudging feet from school --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPlaymates, and holidays, and nuts -And visions vast and small -- Strange that the feet so precious charged Should reach so small a goal!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d147 Bless God, he went as soldiers, His musket on his breast -- Grant God, he charge the bravest Of all the martial blest!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPlease God, might I behold him In epauletted white -- I should not fear the foe then -- I should not fear the fight!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d148\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll overgrown by cunning moss, All interspersed with weed, The little cage of "Currer Bell" In quiet "Haworth" laid.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGathered from many wanderings -Gethsemane can tell Thro' what transporting anguish She reached the Asphodel!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSoft falls the sounds of Eden Upon her puzzled ear - Oh what an afternoon for Heaven, When "Bronte" entered there!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d149\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe went as quiet as the Dew From an Accustomed flower. Not like the Dew, did she return At the Accustomed hour!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe dropt as softly as a star From out my summer's Eve -- Less skillful than Le Verriere It's sorer to believe! 150\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe died -- this was the way she died. And when her breath was done Took up her simple wardrobe And started for the sun. Her little figure at the gate The Angels must have spied, Since I could never find her Upon the mortal side.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d151\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMute thy Coronation -- Meek my Vive le roi, Fold a tiny courtier In thine Ermine, Sir, There to rest revering Till the pageant by, I can murmur broken, Master, It was I --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d152\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun kept stooping -- stooping -- low! The Hills to meet him rose! On his side, what Transaction! On their side, what Repose!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeeper and deeper grew the stain Upon the window pane -- Thicker and thicker stood the feet Until the Tyrian\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWas crowded dense with Armies -- So gay, so Brigadier -- That I felt martial stirrings Who once the Cockade wore -- Charged from my chimney corner -- But Nobody was there!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d153\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDust is the only Secret -- Death, the only One You cannot find out all about In his "native town."\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNobody know "his Father" -- Never was a Boy -- Hadn't any playmates, Or "Early history" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIndustrious! Laconic! Punctual! Sedate! Bold as a Brigand! Stiller than a Fleet!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBuilds, like a Bird, too! Christ robs the Nest -- Robin after Robin Smuggled to Rest!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d154\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExcept to Heaven, she is nought. Except for Angels -- lone. Except to some wide-wandering Bee A flower superfluous blown.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExcept for winds -- provincial. Except by Butterflies Unnoticed as a single dew That on the Acre lies.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe smallest Housewife in the grass, Yet take her from the Lawn And somebody has lost the face That made Existence -- Home!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d155\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Murmur of a Bee A Witchcraft -- yieldeth me -- If any ask me why -- 'Twere easier to die -- Than tell -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Red upon the Hill Taketh away my will -- If anybody sneer -- Take care -- for God is here -- That's all.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Breaking of the Day Addeth to my Degree -- If any ask me how -- Artist -- who drew me so -- Must tell!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d156\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou love me -- you are sure -- I shall not fear mistake -- I shall not cheated wake -- Some grinning morn -- To find the Sunrise left -- And Orchards -- unbereft -- And Dollie -- gone!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI need not start -- you're sure -- That night will never be -- When frightened -- home to Thee I run -- To find the windows dark -- And no more Dollie -- mark -- Quite none?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBe sure you're sure -- you know -- I'll bear it better now -- If you'll just tell me so -- Than when -- a little dull Balm grown -- Over this pain of mine -- You sting -- again!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d157\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMusicians wrestle everywhere -- All day -- among the crowded air I hear the silver strife -- And -- walking -- long before the morn -- Such transport breaks upon the town I think it that "New Life"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf is not Bird -- it has no nest -- Nor "Band" -- in brass and scarlet -- drest -- Nor Tamborin -- nor Man -- It is not Hymn from pulpit read -- The "Morning Stars" the Treble led On Time's first Afternoon!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome -- say -- it is "the Spheres" -- at play! Some say that bright Majority Of vanished Dames -- and Men! Some -- think it service in the place Where we -- with late -- celestial face -- Please God -- shall Ascertain!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d158\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDying! Dying in the night! Won't somebody bring the light So I can see which way to go Into the everlasting snow?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd "Jesus"! Where is Jesus gone? They said that Jesus -- always came -- Perhaps he doesn't know the House -- This way, Jesus, Let him pass!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSomebody run to the great gate And see if Dollie's coming! Wait! I hear her feet upon the stair! Death won't hurt -- now Dollie's here!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d159\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA little bread -- a crust -- a crumb -- A little trust -- a demijohn -- Can keep the soul alive -- Not portly, mind! but breathing -- warm -- Conscious -- as old Napoleon, The night before the Crown!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA modest lot -- A fame petite -- A brief Campaign of sting and sweet Is plenty! Is enough! A Sailor's business is the shore! A Soldier's -- balls! Who asketh more, Must seek the neighboring life!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d160\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJust lost, when I was saved! Just felt the world go by! Just girt me for the onset with Eternity, When breath blew back, And on the other side I heard recede the disappointed tide!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTherefore, as One returned, I feel Odd secrets of the line to tell! Some Sailor, skirting foreign shores -- Some pale Reporter, from the awful doors Before the Seal!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNext time, to stay! Next time, the things to see By Ear unheard, Unscrutinized by Eye -- Next time, to tarry, While the Ages steal -Slow tramp the Centuries, And the Cycles wheel!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d161\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA feather from the Whippoorwill That everlasting -- sings! Whose galleries -- are Sunrise -- Whose Opera -- the Springs -- Whose Emerald Nest the Ages spin Of mellow -- murmuring thread -- Whose Beryl Egg, what Schoolboys hunt In "Recess" -- Overhead!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d162\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy River runs to thee -Blue Sea! Wilt welcome me? My River wait reply -- Oh Sea -- look graciously -- I'll fetch thee Brooks From spotted nooks -- Say -- Sea -- Take Me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d163\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTho' my destiny be Fustian}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
-- Hers be damask fine -- Tho' she wear a silver apron -- I, a less divine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStill, my little Gypsy being I would far prefer, Still, my little sunburnt bosom To her Rosier, For, when Frosts, their punctual fingers On her forehead lay, You and I, and Dr. Holland, Bloom Eternally!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRoses of a steadfast summer In a steadfast land, Where no Autumn lifts her pencil -- And no Reapers stand!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d164\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMama never forgets her birds, Though in another tree -- She looks down just as often And just as tenderly As when her little mortal nest With cunning care she wove -- If either of her "sparrows fall," She "notices," above.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d165\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Wounded Deer -- leaps highest -I've heard the Hunter tell -- 'Tis but the Ecstasy of death -- And then the Brake is still!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Smitten Rock that gushes! The trampled Steel that springs! A Cheek is always redder Just where the Hectic stings!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMirth is the Mail of Anguish In which it Cautious Arm, Lest anybody spy the blood And "you're hurt" exclaim!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d166 I met a King this afternoon! He had not on a Crown indeed, A little Palmleaf Hat was all, And he was barefoot, I'm afraid!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut sure I am he Ermine wore Beneath his faded Jacket's blue -- And sure I am, the crest he bore Within that Jacket's pocket too!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor 'twas too stately for an Earl -- A Marquis would not go so grand! 'Twas possibly a Czar petite -- A Pope, or something of that kind!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I must tell you, of a Horse My freckled Monarch held the rein -Doubtless an estimable Beast, But not at all disposed to run!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd such a wagon! While I live Dare I presume to see Another such a vehicle As then transported me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTwo other ragged Princes His royal state partook! Doubtless the first excursion These sovereigns ever took!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI question if the Royal Coach Round which the Footmen wait Has the significance, on high, Of this Barefoot Estate!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d167\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo learn the Transport by the Pain As Blind Men learn the sun! To die of thirst -- suspecting That Brooks in Meadows run! To stay the homesick -- homesick feet Upon a foreign shore - Haunted by native lands, the while -And blue -- beloved air!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis is the Sovereign Anguish! This -- the signal woe! These are the patient "Laureates" Whose voices -- trained -- below --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAscend in ceaseless Carol -- Inaudible, indeed, To us -- the duller scholars Of the Mysterious Bard!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d168\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf the foolish, call them "flowers" -- Need the wiser, tell? If the Savants "Classify" them It is just as well!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThose who read the "Revelations" Must not criticize Those who read the same Edition -With beclouded Eyes!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould we stand with that Old "Moses" -- "Canaan" denied -- Scan like him, the stately landscape On the other side --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDoubtless, we should deem superfluous Many Sciences, Not pursued by learned Angels In scholastic skies!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLow amid that glad Belles lettres Grant that we may stand, Stars, amid profound Galaxies -- At that grand "Right hand"! 169\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn Ebon Box, when years have flown To reverently peer, Wiping away the velvet dust Summers have sprinkled there!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo hold a letter to the light -- Grown Tawny now, with time -- To con the faded syllables That quickened us like Wine!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps a Flower's shrivelled check Among its stores to find - Plucked far away, some morning -- By gallant -- mouldering hand!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA curl, perhaps, from foreheads Our Constancy forgot -- Perhaps, an Antique trinket -- In vanished fashions set!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then to lay them quiet back -- And go about its care - As if the little Ebon Box Were none of our affair!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d170\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPortraits are to daily faces As an Evening West, To a fine, pedantic sunshine -- In a satin Vest!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d171\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWait till the Majesty of Death Invests so mean a brow! Almost a powdered Footman Might dare to touch it now!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWait till in Everlasting Robes That Democrat is dressed, Then prate about "Preferment" -- And "Station," and the rest!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAround this quiet Courtier Obsequious Angels wait! Full royal is his Retinue! Full purple is his state!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Lord, might dare to lift the Hat To such a Modest Clay Since that My Lord, "the Lord of Lords" Receives unblushingly!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d172\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis so much joy! 'Tis so much joy! If I should fail, what poverty! And yet, as poor as I, Have ventured all upon a throw! Have gained! Yes! Hesitated so -- This side the Victory!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLife is but Life! And Death, but Death! Bliss is, but Bliss, and Breath but Breath! And if indeed I fail, At least, to know the worst, is sweet! Defeat means nothing but Defeat, No drearier, can befall!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd if I gain! Oh Gun at Sea! Oh Bells, that in the Steeples be! At first, repeat it slow! For Heaven is a different thing, Conjectured, and waked sudden in -And might extinguish me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d173 A fuzzy fellow, without feet, Yet doth exceeding run! Of velvet, is his Countenance, And his Complexion, dun!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSometime, he dwelleth in the grass! Sometime, upon a bough, From which he doth descend in plush Upon the Passer-by!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll this in summer. But when winds alarm the Forest Folk, He taketh Damask Residence -- And struts in sewing silk!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen, finer than a Lady, Emerges in the spring! A Feather on each shoulder! You'd scarce recognize him!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy Men, yclept Caterpillar! By me! But who am I, To tell the pretty secret Of the Butterfly!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d174\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt last, to be identified! At last, the lamps upon thy side The rest of Life to see!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPast Midnight! Past the Morning Star! Past Sunrise! Ah, What leagues there were Between our feet, and Day!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d175\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI have never seen "Volcanoes" -- But, when Travellers tell How those old -- phlegmatic mountains Usually so still --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBear within -- appalling Ordnance, Fire, and smoke, and gun, Taking Villages for breakfast, And appalling Men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf the stillness is Volcanic In the human face When upon a pain Titanic Features keep their place --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf at length the smouldering anguish Will not overcome -- And the palpitating Vineyard In the dust, be thrown?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf some loving Antiquary, On Resumption Morn, Will not cry with joy "Pompeii"! To the Hills return!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d176\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'm the little "Heart's Ease"! I don't care for pouting skies! If the Butterfly delay Can I, therefore, stay away?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf the Coward Bumble Bee In his chimney corner stay, I, must resoluter be! Who'll apologize for me?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDear, Old fashioned, little flower! Eden is old fashioned, too! Birds are antiquated fellows! Heaven does not change her blue. Nor will I, the little Heart's Ease -- Ever be induced to do! Ah, Necromancy Sweet! Ah, Wizard erudite! Teach me the skill,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat I instil the pain Surgeons assuage in vain, Nor Herb of all the plain Can Heal!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d178\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cautious, scanned my little life -- I winnowed what would fade From what would last till Heads like mine Should be a-dreaming laid.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI put the latter in a Barn -- The former, blew away. I went one winter morning And lo - my priceless Hay\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWas not upon the "Scaffold" -- Was not upon the "Beam" -- And from a thriving Farmer -- A Cynic, I became.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhether a Thief did it -Whether it was the wind -- Whether Deity's guiltless -- My business is, to find!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo I begin to ransack! How is it Hearts, with Thee? Art thou within the little Barn Love provided Thee? If I could bribe them by a Rose I'd bring them every flower that grows From Amherst to Cashmere! I would not stop for night, or storm -- Or frost, or death, or anyone -- My business were so dear!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf they would linger for a Bird My Tambourin were soonest heard Among the April Woods! Unwearied, all the summer long, Only to break in wilder song When Winter shook the boughs!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat if they hear me! Who shall say That such an importunity May not at last avail?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat, weary of this Beggar's face -- They may not finally say, Yes -- To drive her from the Hall?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d180\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs if some little Arctic flower Upon the polar hem -- Went wandering down the Latitudes Until it puzzled came To continents of summer -- To firmaments of sun - To strange, bright crowds of flowers -- And birds, of foreign tongue! I say, As if this little flower To Eden, wandered in - What then? Why nothing, Only, your inference therefrom! I lost a World - the other day! Has Anybody found? You'll know it by the Row of Stars Around its forehead bound.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Rich man -- might not notice it -- Yet -- to my frugal Eye, Of more Esteem than Ducats -- Oh find it -- Sir -- for me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d182\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I shouldn't be alive When the Robins come, Give the one in Red Cravat, A Memorial crumb.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I couldn't thank you, Being fast asleep, You will know I'm trying Why my Granite lip!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d183\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI've heard an Organ talk, sometimes In a Cathedral Aisle, And understood no word it said -- Yet held my breath, the while --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd risen up -- and gone away, A more Berdardine Girl -- Yet -- know not what was done to me In that old Chapel Aisle.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d184\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA transport one cannot contain May yet a transport be -- Though God forbid it lift the lid -- Unto its Ecstasy!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Diagram -- of Rapture! A sixpence at a Show -- With Holy Ghosts in Cages! The Universe would go!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d185\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Faith" is a fine invention When Gentlemen can see -- But Microscopes are prudent In an Emergency.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d186\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat shall I do -- it whimpers so -- This little Hound within the Heart All day and night with bark and start -- And yet, it will not go -- Would you untie it, were you me -- Would it stop whining -- if to Thee -I sent it -- even now?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt should not tease you -- By your chair -- or, on the mat -- Or if it dare -- to climb your dizzy knee -- Or -- sometimes at your side to run -When you were willing - Shall it come? Tell Carlo - He'll tell me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d187\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow many times these low feet staggered -- Only the soldered mouth can tell - Try -- can you stir the awful rivet -- Try -- can you lift the hasps of steel!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStroke the cool forehead -- hot so often -- Lift -- if you care -- the listless hair -Handle the adamantine fingers Never a thimble -- more -- shall wear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBuzz the dull flies -- on the chamber window -- Brave -- shines the sun through the freckled pane -- Fearless -- the cobweb swings from the ceiling -Indolent Housewife -- in Daisies -- lain!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d188\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMake}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
me a picture of the sun -- So I can hang it in my room -- And make believe I'm getting warm When others call it "Day"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDraw me a Robin -- on a stem -- So I am hearing him, I'll dream, And when the Orchards stop their tune -- Put my pretense -- away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSay if it's really -- warm at noon -- Whether it's Buttercups -- that "skim" -- Or Butterflies -- that "bloom"? Then -- skip -- the frost -- upon the lea -- And skip the Russet -- on the tree -- Let's play those -- never come!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d189\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's such a little thing to weep -- So short a thing to sigh -- And yet -- by Trades -- the size of these We men and women die! He was weak, and I was strong -- then -- So He let me lead him in -- I was weak, and He was strong then -- So I let him lead me -- Home.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twasn't far -- the door was near -- 'Twasn't dark -- for He went -- too -- 'Twasn't loud, for He said nought -- That was all I cared to know.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDay knocked -- and we must part -- Neither -- was strongest -- now -- He strove -- and I strove -- too -- We didn't do it -- tho'!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d191\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Skies can't keep their secret! They tell it to the Hills - The Hills just tell the Orchards -- And they -- the Daffodils!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Bird -- by chance -- that goes that way -- Soft overhears the whole -- If I should bribe the little Bird -- Who knows but she would tell?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI think I won't -- however -- It's finer -- not to know -- If Summer were an Axiom -- What sorcery had Snow?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo keep your secret -- Father! I would not -- if I could, Know what the Sapphire Fellows, do, In your new-fashioned world! Poor little Heart! Did they forget thee? Then dinna care! Then dinna care!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dProud little Heart! Did they forsake thee? Be debonnaire! Be debonnaire!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrail little Heart! I would not break thee - Could'st credit me? Could'st credit me?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGay little Heart -- Like Morning Glory! Wind and Sun -- wilt thee array!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d193\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI shall know why -- when Time is over -- And I have ceased to wonder why -- Christ will explain each separate anguish In the fair schoolroom of the sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe will tell me what "Peter" promised -- And I -- for wonder at his woe -- I shall forget the drop of Anguish That scalds me now -- that scalds me now!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d194\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn this long storm the Rainbow rose -- On this late Morn -- the Sun -- The clouds -- like listless Elephants -Horizons -- straggled down --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Birds rose smiling, in their nests -- The gales -- indeed -- were done -- Alas, how heedless were the eyes -- On whom the summer shone!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe quiet nonchalance of death -- No Daybreak -- can bestir -- The slow -- Archangel's syllables Must awaken her!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d195\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor this -- accepted Breath -- Through it -- compete with Death -- The fellow cannot touch this Crown -- By it -- my title take -- Ah, what a royal sake To my necessity -- stooped down!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Wilderness -- can be Where this attendeth me -- No Desert Noon -- No fear of frost to come Haunt the perennial bloom -- But Certain June!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGet Gabriel -- to tell -- the royal syllable -- Get Saints -- with new -- unsteady tongue -- To say what trance below Most like their glory show -- Fittest the Crown!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d196\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe don't cry -- Tim and I, We are far too grand -- But we bolt the door tight To prevent a friend --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen we hide our brave face Deep in our hand -- Not to cry -- Tim and I -- We are far too grand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor to dream -- he and me -- Do we condescend -- We just shut our brown eye To see to the end --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTim -- see Cottages -- But, Oh, so high! Then -- we shake -- Tim and I -- And lest I -- cry --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTim -- reads a little Hymn -- And we both pray -- Please, Sir, I and Tim -- Always lost the way!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe must die -- by and by -- Clergymen say -- Tim -- shall -- if I -- do -I -- too -- if he --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow shall we arrange it -- Tim -- was -- so -- shy? Take us simultaneous -- Lord -- I -- "Tim" -- and Me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d197\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMorning -- is the place for Dew -- Corn -- is made at Noon -- After dinner light -- for flowers -- Dukes -- for Setting Sun!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d198\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn awful Tempest mashed the air -The clouds were gaunt, and few -- A Black -- as of a Spectre's Cloak Hid Heaven and Earth from view.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe creatures chuckled on the Roofs -- And whistled in the air - And shook their fists -- And gnashed their teeth -- And swung their frenzied hair.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe morning lit -- the Birds arose -The Monster's faded eyes Turned slowly to his native coast -- And peace -- was Paradise!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d199\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'm "wife" -- I've finished that -- That other state -- I'm Czar -- I'm "Woman" now -- It's safer so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow odd the Girl's life looks Behind this soft Eclipse -- I think that Earth feels so To folks in Heaven -- now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis being comfort -- then That other kind -- was pain -- But why compare? I'm "Wife"! Stop there!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 200-299\u13\'0d\u13\'0d200\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI stole them from a Bee -- Because -- Thee -- Sweet plea -- He pardoned me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d201\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTwo swimmers wrestled on the spar -- Until the morning sun - When One -- turned smiling to the land -- Oh God! the Other One!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe stray ships -- passing -- Spied a face -- Upon the waters borne -- With eyes in death -- still begging raised -- And hands -- beseeching -- thrown!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d202\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Eye is fuller than my vase -- Her Cargo -- is of Dew -- And still -- my Heart -- my Eye outweighs -- East India -- for you!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d203\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe forgot -- and I -- remembered -- 'Twas an everyday affair -- Long ago as Christ and Peter -- "Warmed them" at the "Temple fire."\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Thou wert with him" -- quoth "the Damsel"? "No" -- said Peter, 'twasn't me -- Jesus merely "looked" at Peter -- Could I do aught else -- to Thee?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d204\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA slash of Blue -- A sweep of Gray -- Some scarlet patches on the way, Compose an Evening Sky -- A little purple -- slipped between -- Some Ruby Trousers hurried on -- A Wave of Gold -- A Bank of Day -- This just makes out the Morning Sky.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d205\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI should not dare to leave my friend, Because -- because if he should die While I was gone -- and I -- too late -Should reach the Heart that wanted me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I should disappoint the eyes That hunted -- hunted so -- to see -And could not bear to shut until They "noticed" me -- they noticed me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I should stab the patient faith So sure I'd come -- so sure I'd come -- It listening -- listening -- went to sleep -- Telling my tardy name --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Heart would wish it broke before -- Since breaking then -- since breaking then -- Were useless as next morning's sun -- Where midnight frosts -- had lain! The Flower must not blame the Bee -- That seeketh his felicity Too often at her door --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut teach the Footman from Vevay -- Mistress is "not at home" -- to say -- To people -- any more!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d207\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTho' I get home how late -- how late -- So I get home - 'twill compensate -- Better will be the Ecstasy That they have done expecting me -- When Night -- descending -- dumb -- and dark -They hear my unexpected knock - Transporting must the moment be -- Brewed from decades of Agony!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo think just how the fire will burn -Just how long-cheated eyes will turn -- To wonder what myself will say, And what itself, will say to me -- Beguiles the Centuries of way!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d208\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Rose did caper on her cheek -Her Bodice rose and fell -- Her pretty speech -- like drunken men -- Did stagger pitiful --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer fingers fumbled at her work -- Her needle would not go -- What ailed so smart a little Maid -- It puzzled me to know -- Till opposite -- I spied a cheek That bore another Rose -- Just opposite -- Another speech That like the Drunkard goes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Vest that like her Bodice, danced -To the immortal tune -- Till those two troubled -- little Clocks Ticked softly into one.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d209\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith thee, in the Desert -- With thee in the thirst - With thee in the Tamarind wood -- Leopard breathes -- at last!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d210\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe thought beneath so slight a film -- Is more distinctly seen - As laces just reveal the surge -- Or mists -- the Apennine\u13\'0d\u13\'0d211\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCome slowly -- Eden! Lips unused to Thee -- Bashful -- sip thy Jessamines -- As the fainting Bee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dReaching late his flower, Round her chamber hums -- Counts his nectars -- Enters -- and is lost in Balms. Least Rivers -- docile to some sea. My Caspian -- thee.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d213\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDid the Harebell loose her girdle To the lover Bee Would the Bee the Harebell hallow Much as formerly?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDid the "Paradise" -- persuaded -- Yield her moat of pearl -- Would the Eden be an Eden, Or the Earl -- an Earl?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d214\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI taste a liquor never brewed -- From Tankards scooped in Pearl -- Not all the Vats upon the Rhine Yield such an Alcohol!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dInebriate of Air -- am I -- And Debauchee of Dew -- Reeling -- thro endless summer days -- From inns of Molten Blue --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen "Landlords" turn the drunken Bee Out of the Foxglove's door -- When Butterflies -- renounce their "drams" -- I shall but drink the more!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill Seraphs swing their snowy Hats -- And Saints -- to windows run -- To see the little Tippler Leaning against the -- Sun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d215 What is -- "Paradise" -- Who live there -- Are they "Farmers" -- Do they "hoe" -- Do they know that this is "Amherst" -- And that I -- am coming -- too --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDo they wear "new shoes" -- in "Eden" -- Is it always pleasant -- there -- Won't they scold us -- when we're homesick -- Or tell God -- how cross we are --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou are sure there's such a person As "a Father" -- in the sky -- So if I get lost -- there -- ever -- Or do what the Nurse calls "die" -- I shan't walk the "Jasper" -- barefoot -- Ransomed folks -- won't laugh at me -- Maybe -- "Eden" a'n't so lonesome As New England used to be!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d216\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSafe in their Alabaster Chambers -- Untouched my Morning And untouched by Noon -- Sleep the meek members of the Resurrection -Rafter of satin, And Roof of stone.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLight laughs the breeze In her Castle above them -- Babbles the Bee in a stolid Ear, Pipe the Sweet Birds in ignorant cadence -- Ah, what sagacity perished here!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d217\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSavior! I've no one else to tell -- And so I trouble thee. I am the one forgot thee so -- Dost thou remember me? Nor, for myself, I came so far -- That were the little load - I brought thee the imperial Heart I had not strength to hold -- The Heart}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
I carried in my own -- Till mine too heavy grew -- Yet -- strangest -- heavier since it went -- Is it too large for you?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d218\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs it true, dear Sue? Are there two? I shouldn't like to come For fear of joggling Him! If I could shut him up In a Coffee Cup, Or tie him to a pin Till I got in - Or make him fast To "Toby's" fist -- Hist! Whist! I'd come!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d219\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe sweeps with many-colored Brooms -- And leaves the Shreds behind -- Oh Housewife in the Evening West -Come back, and dust the Pond!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou dropped a Purple Ravelling in -You dropped an Amber thread -- And how you've littered all the East With duds of Emerald!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd still, she plies her spotted Brooms, And still the Aprons fly, Till Brooms fade softly into stars -- And then I come away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d220\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould I -- then -- shut the door -- Lest my beseeching face -- at last -Rejected -- be -- of Her?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d221\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt can't be "Summer"! That -- got through! It's early -- yet -- for "Spring"! There's that long town of White -- to cross -- Before the Blackbirds sing! It can't be "Dying"! It's too Rouge -- The Dead shall go in White -- So Sunset shuts my question down With Cuffs of Chrysolite!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d222\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Katie walks, this simple pair accompany her side, When Katie runs unwearied they follow on the road, When Katie kneels, their loving hands still clasp her pious knee -- Ah! Katie! Smile at Fortune, with two so knit to thee!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d223\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI Came to buy a smile -- today -- But just a single smile - The smallest one upon your face Will suit me just as well - The one that no one else would miss It shone so very small -- I'm pleading at the "counter" -- sir -- Could you afford to sell - I've Diamonds -- on my fingers -- You know what Diamonds are? I've Rubies -- live the Evening Blood -- And Topaz -- like the star! 'Twould be "a Bargain" for a Jew! Say -- may I have it -- Sir?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d224\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI've nothing else -- to bring, You know -- So I keep bringing These -- Just as the Night keeps fetching Stars To our familiar eyes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMaybe, we shouldn't mind them -- Unless they didn't come -- Then -- maybe, it would puzzle us To find our way Home --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d225\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJesus! thy Crucifix Enable thee to guess The smaller size!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJesus! thy second face Mind thee in Paradise Of ours!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d226\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShould you but fail at -- Sea -- In sight of me -- Or doomed lie -- Next Sun -- to die -- Or rap -- at Paradise -- unheard I'd harass God Until he let you in! 227\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTeach Him -- When He makes the names -- Such an one -- to say -- On his babbling -- Berry -- lips -- As should sound -- to me -- Were my Ear -- as near his nest -- As my thought -- today -- As should sound -- "Forbid us not" -- Some like "Emily."\u13\'0d\u13\'0d228\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBlazing in Gold and quenching in Purple Leaping like Leopards to the Sky Then at the feet of the old Horizon Laying her spotted Face to die Stooping as low as the Otter's Window Touching the Roof and tinting the Barn Kissing her Bonnet to the Meadow And the Juggler of Day is gone\u13\'0d\u13\'0d229\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Burdock -- clawed my Gown -- Not Burdock's -- blame -- But mine -- Who went too near The Burdock's Den --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Bog -- affronts my shoe -- What else have Bogs -- to do -- The only Trade they know -- The splashing Men! Ah, pity -- then!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Minnows can despise! The Elephant's -- calm eyes Look further on!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d230\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe -- Bee and I -- live by the quaffing -- 'Tisn't all Hock -- with us -- Life has its Ale -- But it's many a lay of the Dim Burgundy -- We chant -- for cheer -- when the Wines -- fail -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDo we "get drunk"? Ask the jolly Clovers! Do we "beat" our "Wife"? I -- never wed -- Bee -- pledges his -- in minute flagons -- Dainty -- as the trees -- on our deft Head --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhile runs the Rhine -- He and I -- revel -- First -- at the vat -- and latest at the Vine -- Noon -- our last Cup -- "Found dead" -- "of Nectar" -- By a humming Coroner -- In a By-Thyme!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d231\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGod permits industrious Angels -- Afternoons -- to play -- I met one -- forgot my Schoolmates -- All -- for Him -- straightway -- God calls home -- the Angels -- promptly -- At the Setting Sun -- I missed mine -- how dreary -- Marbles -- After playing Crown!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d232 The Sun -- just touched the Morning -- The Morning -- Happy thing -- Supposed that He had come to dwell -- And Life would all be Spring!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe felt herself supremer -- A Raised -- Ethereal Thing! Henceforth -- for Her -- What Holiday! Meanwhile -- Her wheeling King -- Trailed -- slow -- along the Orchards -- His haughty -- spangled Hems -- Leaving a new necessity! The want of Diadems!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Morning -- fluttered -- staggered -- Felt feebly -- for Her Crown -- Her unanointed forehead -- Henceforth -- Her only One!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d233\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lamp burns sure -- within -- Tho' Serfs -- supply the Oil -- It matters not the busy Wick -- At her phosphoric toil!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Slave -- forgets -- to fill -- The Lamp -- burns golden -- on -- Unconscious that the oil is out -- As that the Slave -- is gone.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d234\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou're right -- "the way is narrow" -- And "difficult the Gate" -- And "few there be" -- Correct again -- That "enter in -- thereat" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Costly -- So are purples! 'Tis just the price of Breath -- With but the "Discount" of the Grave -- Termed by the Brokers -- "Death"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd after that -- there's Heaven -- The Good Man's -- "Dividend" -- And Bad Men -- "go to Jail" -- I guess --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d235\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Court is far away -- No Umpire -- have I -- My Sovereign is offended -- To gain his grace -- I'd die!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'll seek his royal feet -- I'll say -- Remember -- King -- Thou shalt -- thyself -- one day -- a Child -- Implore a larger -- thing -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Empire -- is of Czars -- As small -- they say -- as I -- Grant me -- that day -- the royalty -- To intercede -- for Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d236\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf He dissolve -- then -- there is nothing -- more -- Eclipse -- at Midnight -- It was dark -- before -- Sunset -- at Easter -- Blindness -- on the Dawn -- Faint Star of Bethlehem -- Gone down!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWould but some God -- inform Him -- Or it be too late! Say -- that the pulse just lisps -- The Chariots wait -- Say -- that a little life -- for His -- Is leaking -- red -- His little Spaniel -- tell Him! Will He heed?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d237\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI think just how my shape will rise -When I shall be "forgiven" -- Till Hair -- and Eyes -- and timid Head -- Are out of sight -- in Heaven --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI think just how my lips will weigh -- With shapeless -- quivering -- prayer -- That you -- so late -- "Consider" me -- The "Sparrow" of your Care --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI mind me that of Anguish -- sent -- Some drifts were moved away -- Before my simple bosom -- broke -- And why not this -- if they?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so I con that thing -- "forgiven" -- Until -- delirious -- borne -- By my long bright -- and longer -- trust -- I drop my Heart -- unshriven!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d238\u13\'0d\u13\'0dKill your Balm -- and its Odors bless you -- Bare your Jessamine -- to the storm -- And she will fling her maddest perfume -- Haply -- your Summer night to Charm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStab the Bird -- that built in your bosom -- Oh, could you catch her last Refrain -- Bubble! "forgive" -- "Some better" -- Bubble! "Carol for Him -- when I am gone"! "Heaven" -- is what I cannot reach! The Apple on the Tree -- Provided it do hopeless -- hang -- That -- "Heaven" is -- to Me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Color, on the Cruising Cloud -- The interdicted Land -- Behind the Hill -- the House behind -There -- Paradise -- is found!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer teasing Purples -- Afternoons -The credulous -- decoy -- Enamored -- of the Conjuror -- That spurned us -- Yesterday!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d240\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAh, Moon -- and Star! You are very far -- But were no one Farther than you -- Do you think I'd stop For a Firmament -- Or a Cubit -- or so?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could borrow a Bonnet Of the Lark -- And a Chamois' Silver Boot -- And a stirrup of an Antelope -- And be with you -- Tonight!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut, Moon, and Star, Though you're very far -- There is one -- farther than you -- He -- is more than a firmament -- from Me -- So I can never go! I like a look of Agony, Because I know it's true -- Men do not sham Convulsion, Nor simulate, a Throe --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Eyes glaze once -- and that is Death -- Impossible to feign The Beads upon the Forehead By homely Anguish strung.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d242\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen we stand on the tops of Things -- And like the Trees, look down -- The smoke all cleared away from it -- And Mirrors on the scene --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJust laying light -- no soul will wink Except it have the flaw -- The Sound ones, like the Hills -- shall stand -- No Lighting, scares away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Perfect, nowhere be afraid -- They bear their dauntless Heads, Where others, dare not go at Noon, Protected by their deeds --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Stars dare shine occasionally Upon a spotted World -- And Suns, go surer, for their Proof, As if an Axle, held --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d243\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI've known a Heaven, like a Tent -- To wrap its shining Yards -- Pluck up its stakes, and disappear -Without the sound of Boards Or Rip of Nail -- Or Carpenter -- But just the miles of Stare -- That signalize a Show's Retreat -- In North America --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Trace -- no Figment of the Thing That dazzled, Yesterday, No Ring -- no Marvel -- Men, and Feats -- Dissolved as utterly -- As Bird's far Navigation Discloses just a Hue -- A plash of Oars, a Gaiety -- Then swallowed up, of View.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d244\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt is easy to work when the soul is at play -- But when the soul is in pain -- The hearing him put his playthings up Makes work difficult -- then --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt is simple, to ache in the Bone, or the Rind -- But Gimlets -- among the nerve -- Mangle daintier -- terribler -- Like a Panter in the Glove --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d245\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI held a Jewel in my fingers -- And went to sleep -- The day was warm, and winds were prosy -- I said "'Twill keep" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI woke -- and chid my honest fingers, The Gem was gone -- And now, an Amethyst remembrance Is all I own - Forever at His side to walk -- The smaller of the two! Brain of His Brain -- Blood of His Blood -- Two lives -- One Being -- now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dForever of His fate to taste -- If grief -- the largest part -- If joy -- to put my piece away For that beloved Heart --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll life -- to know each other -- Whom we can never learn -- And bye and bye -- a Change -- Called Heaven -- Rapt Neighborhoods}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
of Men -- Just finding out -- what puzzled us -- Without the lexicon!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d247\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat would I give to see his face? I'd give -- I'd give my life -- of course -- But that is not enough! Stop just a minute -- let me think! I'd give my biggest Bobolink! That makes two -- Him -- and Life! You know who "June" is -- I'd give her -- Roses a day from Zanzibar -- And Lily tubes -- like Wells -- Bees -- by the furlong - Straits of Blue Navies of Butterflies -- sailed thro' -And dappled Cowslip Dells --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen I have "shares" in Primrose "Banks" -- Daffodil Dowries -- spicy "Stocks" -- Dominions -- broad as Dew -- Bags of Doublons -- adventurous Bees Brought me -- from firmamental seas -- And Purple -- from Peru --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNow -- have I bought it -- "Shylock"? Say! Sign me the Bond! "I vow to pay To Her -- who pledges this -- One hour -- of her Sovereign's face"! Ecstatic Contract! Niggard Grace! My Kingdom's worth of Bliss!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d248\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhy -- do they shut Me out of Heaven? Did I sing -- too loud? But -- I can say a little "Minor" Timid as a Bird!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWouldn't the Angels try me -- Just -- once -- more -- Just -- see -- if I troubled them -- But don't -- shut the door!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh, if I -- were the Gentleman In the "White Robe" -- And they -- were the little Hand -- that knocked -Could -- I -- forbid?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d249\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWild Nights -- Wild Nights! Were I with thee Wild Nights should be Our luxury!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFutile -- the Winds -- To a Heart in port -- Done with the Compass -- Done with the Chart!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRowing in Eden -- Ah, the Sea! Might I but moor -- Tonight -- In Thee!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d250\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI shall keep singing! Birds will pass me On their way to Yellower Climes -- Each -- with a Robin's expectation -I -- with my Redbreast -- And my Rhymes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLate -- when I take my place in summer -- But -- I shall bring a fuller tune -- Vespers -- are sweeter than Matins -- Signor -- Morning -- only the seed of Noon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d251\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOver the fence -- Strawberries -- grow -- Over the fence -- I could climb -- if I tried, I know -- Berries are nice!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut -- if I stained my Apron -- God would certainly scold! Oh, dear, -- I guess if He were a Boy -- He'd -- climb -- if He could!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d252\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI can wade Grief -- Whole Pools of it -- I'm used to that -- But the least push of Joy Breaks up my feet -- And I tip -- drunken -- Let no Pebble -- smile -'Twas the New Liquor -- That was all!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPower is only Pain -- Stranded, thro' Discipline, Till Weights -- will hang -Give Balm -- to Giants -- And they'll wilt, like Men -- Give Himmaleh -- They'll Carry -- Him!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d253\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou see I cannot see -- your lifetime -- I must guess -- How many times it ache for me -- today -- Confess -- How many times for my far sake The brave eyes film -- But I guess guessing hurts -- Mine -- got so dim!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo vague -- the face - My own -- so patient -- covers -- Too far -- the strength - My timidness enfolds - Haunting the Heart -- Like her translated faces -- Teasing the want -- It -- only -- can suffice!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d254\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Hope" is the thing with feathers -- That perches in the soul -- And sings the tune without the words -- And never stops -- at all --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd sweetest -- in the Gale -- is heard -- And sore must be the storm -- That could abash the little Bird That kept so many warm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI've heard it in the chillest land -- And on the strangest Sea -- Yet, never, in Extremity, It asked a crumb -- of Me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d255\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo die -- takes just a little while -- They say it doesn't hurt -- It's only fainter -- by degrees -- And then -- it's out of sight --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA darker Ribbon -- for a Day -- A Crape upon the Hat -- And then the pretty sunshine comes -- And helps us to forget -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe absent -- mystic -- creature -- That but for love of us -- Had gone to sleep -- that soundest time -- Without the weariness -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d256\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I'm lost -- now That I was found -- Shall still my transport be -- That once -- on me -- those Jasper Gates Blazed open -- suddenly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat in my awkward -- gazing -- face -- The Angels -- softly peered -- And touched me with their fleeces, Almost as if they cared -- I'm banished -- now -- you know it -How foreign that can be -- You'll know -- Sir -- when the Savior's face Turns so -- away from you -- 257\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDelight is as the flight -Or in the Ratio of it, As the Schools would say -- The Rainbow's way -- A Skein Flung colored, after Rain, Would suit as bright, Except that flight Were Aliment --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"If it would last" I asked the East, When that Bent Stripe Struck up my childish Firmament -- And I, for glee, Took Rainbows, as the common way, And empty Skies The Eccentricity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so with Lives -- And so with Butterflies - Seen magic -- through the fright That they will cheat the sight -- And Dower latitudes far on -- Some sudden morn -- Our portion -- in the fashion -- Done --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d258\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere's a certain Slant of light, Winter Afternoons -- That oppresses, like the Heft Of Cathedral Tunes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHeavenly Hurt, it gives us -- We can find no scar, But internal difference, Where the Meanings, are --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNone may teach it -- Any -- 'Tis the Seal Despair -- An imperial affliction Sent us of the Air --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen it comes, the Landscape listens -- Shadows -- hold their breath -- When it goes, 'tis like the Distance On the look of Death --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d259\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGood Night! Which put the Candle out? A jealous Zephyr -- not a doubt -- Ah, friend, you little knew How long at that celestial wick The Angels -- labored diligent -- Extinguished -- now -- for you!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt might -- have been the Light House spark -- Some Sailor -- rowing in the Dark -- Had importuned to see! It might -- have been the waning lamp That lit the Drummer from the Camp To purer Reveille!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d260\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRead -- Sweet -- how others -- strove -- Till we -- are stouter -- What they -- renounced -- Till we -- are less afraid - How many times they -- bore the faithful witness -- Till we -- are helped -- As if a Kingdom -- cared!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRead then -- of faith -- That shone above the fagot -- Clear strains of Hymn The River could not drown -- Brave names of Men -- And Celestial Women -- Passed out -- of Record Into -- Renown!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d261\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPut up my lute! What of -- my Music! Since the sole ear I cared to charm -- Passive -- as Granite -- laps My Music -- Sobbing -- will suit -- as well as psalm!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWould but the "Memnon" of the Desert -- Teach me the strain That vanquished Him -- When He -- surrendered to the Sunrise -- Maybe -- that -- would awaken -- them!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d262\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe lonesome for they know not What -- The Eastern Exiles -- be -- Who strayed beyond the Amber line Some madder Holiday --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd ever since -- the purple Moat They strive to climb -- in vain -- As Birds -- that tumble from the clouds Do fumble at the strain -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Blessed Ether -- taught them -- Some Transatlantic Morn -- When Heaven -- was too common -- to miss -- Too sure -- to dote upon! A single Screw of Flesh Is all that pins the Soul That stands for Deity, to Mine, Upon my side the Veil -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOnce witnessed of the Gauze -- Its name is put away As far from mine, as if no plight Had printed yesterday,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn tender -- solemn Alphabet, My eyes just turned to see, When it was smuggled by my sight Into Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMore Hands -- to hold -- These are but Two -- One more new-mailed Nerve Just granted, for the Peril's sake -- Some striding -- Giant -- Love --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo greater than the Gods can show, They slink before the Clay, That not for all their Heaven can boast Will let its Keepsake -- go\u13\'0d\u13\'0d264\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Weight with Needles on the pounds -- To push, and pierce, besides -- That if the Flesh resist the Heft -- The puncture -- coolly tries --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat not a pore be overlooked Of all this Compound Frame -- As manifold for Anguish -- As Species -- be -- for name -- Where Ships of Purple -- gently toss -- On Seas of Daffodil -- Fantastic Sailors -- mingle -- And then -- the Wharf is still!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d266\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis -- is the land -- the Sunset washes -- These -- are the Banks of the Yellow Sea -- Where it rose -- or whither it rushes -These -- are the Western Mystery!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNight after Night Her purple traffic Strews the landing with Opal Bales -- Merchantmen -- poise upon Horizons -- Dip -- and vanish like Orioles!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d267\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDid we disobey Him? Just one time! Charged us to forget Him -- But we couldn't learn!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWere Himself -- such a Dunce -- What would we -- do? Love the dull lad -- best - Oh, wouldn't you?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d268\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMe, change! Me, alter! Then I will, when on the Everlasting Hill A Smaller Purple grows -- At sunset, or a lesser glow Flickers upon Cordillera -- At Day's superior close! Bound -- a trouble -- And lives can bear it! Limit -- how deep a bleeding go! So -- many -- drops -- of vital scarlet -- Deal with the soul As with Algebra!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTell it the Ages -- to a cypher -- And it will ache -- contented -- on -- Sing -- at its pain -- as any Workman -- Notching the fall of the Even Sun!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d270\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne Life of so much Consequence! Yet I -- for it -- would pay -- My Soul's entire income -- In ceaseless -- salary --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne Pearl -- to me -- so signal -- That I would instant dive -- Although -- I knew -- to take it -- Would cost me -- just a life!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sea is full -- I know it! That -- does not blur my Gem! It burns -- distinct from all the row -- Intact -- in Diadem!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe life is thick -- I know it! Yet -- not so dense a crowd -- But Monarchs -- are perceptible -- Far down the dustiest Road! A solemn thing -- it was -- I said -- A woman -- white -- to be -- And wear -- if God should count me fit -- Her blameless mystery --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA hallowed thing -- to drop a life Into the purple well -- Too plummetless -- that it return -- Eternity -- until --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI pondered how the bliss would look -- And would it feel as big - When I could take it in my hand -- As hovering -- seen -- through fog --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then -- the size of this "small" life -- The Sages -- call it small -- Swelled -- like Horizons -- in my vest -- And I sneered -- softly -- "small"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d272\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI breathed enough to take the Trick -And now, removed from Air -- I simulate the Breath, so well -- That One, to be quite sure --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lungs are stirless -- must}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
descend Among the Cunning Cells -- And touch the Pantomine -- Himself, How numb, the Bellows feels!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d273\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe put the Belt around my life I heard the Buckle snap -- And turned away, imperial, My Lifetime folding up - Deliberate, as a Duke would do A Kingdom's Title Deed -Henceforth, a Dedicated sort -- A Member of the Cloud.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYet not too far to come at call -- And do the little Toils That make the Circuit of the Rest -- And deal occasional smiles To lives that stoop to notice mine -- And kindly ask it in -- Whose invitation, know you not For Whom I must decline?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d274\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe only Ghost I ever saw Was dressed in Mechlin -- so -- He wore no sandal on his foot -- And stepped like flakes of snow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Gait -- was soundless, like the Bird -- But rapid -- like the Roe -- His fashions, quaint, Mosaic -- Or haply, Mistletoe --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis conversation -- seldom -- His laughter, like the Breeze -- That dies away in Dimples Among the pensive Trees --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur interview -- was transient -- Of me, himself was shy -- And God forbid I look behind -- Since that appalling Day!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d275\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDoubt Me! My Dim Companion! Why, God, would be content With but a fraction of the Life -- Poured thee, without a stint -- The whole of me -- forever -- What more the Woman can, Say quick, that I may dower thee With last Delight I own!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt cannot be my Spirit -- For that was thine, before -- I ceded all of Dust I knew -- What Opulence the more Had I -- a freckled Maiden, Whose farthest of Degree, Was -- that she might -- Some distant Heaven, Dwell timidly, with thee!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSift her, from Brow to Barefoot! Strain till your last Surmise -- Drop, like a Tapestry, away, Before the Fire's Eyes -- Winnow her finest fondness -- But hallow just the snow Intact, in Everlasting flake -- Oh, Caviler, for you!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d276\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMany a phrase has the English language -- I have heard but one -- Low as the laughter of the Cricket, Loud, as the Thunder's Tongue --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMurmuring, like old Caspian Choirs, When the Tide's a' lull -- Saying itself in new infection -- Like a Whippoorwill --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBreaking in bright Orthography On my simple sleep -- Thundering its Prospective -- Till I stir, and weep --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot for the Sorrow, done me -- But the push of Joy -- Say it again, Saxton! Hush -- Only to me! 277\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat if I say I shall not wait! What if I burst the fleshly Gate -- And pass escaped -- to thee!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat if I file this Mortal -- off -- See where it hurt me -- That's enough -- And wade in Liberty!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey cannot take me -- any more! Dungeons can call -- and Guns implore Unmeaning -- now -- to me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs laughter -- was -- an hour ago -- Or Laces -- or a Travelling Show -- Or who died -- yesterday!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d278\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA shady friend -- for Torrid days -- Is easier to find -- Than one of higher temperature For Frigid -- hour of Mind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Vane a little to the East -- Scares Muslin souls -- away -- If Broadcloth Hearts are firmer -- Than those of Organdy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho is to blame? The Weaver? Ah, the bewildering thread! The Tapestries of Paradise So notelessly -- are made!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d279 Tie the Strings to my Life, My Lord, Then, I am ready to go! Just a look at the Horses -- Rapid! That will do!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPut me in on the firmest side -- So I shall never fall -- For we must ride to the Judgment -- And it's partly, down Hill --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut never I mind the steeper -- And never I mind the Sea -- Held fast in Everlasting Race -- By my own Choice, and Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGoodbye to the Life I used to live -- And the World I used to know -- And kiss the Hills, for me, just once -Then -- I am ready to go!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d280\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI felt a Funeral, in my Brain, And Mourners to and fro Kept treading -- treading -- till it seemed That Sense was breaking through --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when they all were seated, A Service, like a Drum -- Kept beating -- beating -- till I thought My Mind was going numb --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then I heard them lift a Box And creak across my Soul With those same Boots of Lead, again, Then Space -- began to toll,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs all the Heavens were a Bell, And Being, but an Ear, And I, and Silence, some strange Race Wrecked, solitary, here -- And then a Plank in Reason, broke, And I dropped down, and down -- And hit a World, at every plunge, And Finished knowing -- then --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d281\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis so appalling -- it exhilarates -- So over Horror, it half Captivates -- The Soul stares after it, secure -- A Sepulchre, fears frost, no more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo scan a Ghost, is faint -- But grappling, conquers it -- How easy, Torment, now -- Suspense kept sawing so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Truth, is Bald, and Cold -- But that will hold -- If any are not sure -- We show them -- prayer -- But we, who know, Stop hoping, now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLooking at Death, is Dying -- Just let go the Breath -- And not the pillow at your Cheek So Slumbereth --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOthers, Can wrestle -- Yours, is done -- And so of Woe, bleak dreaded -- come, It sets the Fright at liberty -- And Terror's free -- Gay, Ghastly, Holiday!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d282\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow noteless Men, and Pleiads, stand, Until a sudden sky Reveals the fact that One is rapt Forever from the Eye -- Members of the Invisible, Existing, while we stare, In Leagueless Opportunity, O'ertakenless, as the Air --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhy didn't we detain Them? The Heavens with a smile, Sweep by our disappointed Heads Without a syllable --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d283\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Mien to move a Queen -- Half Child -- Half Heroine -- An Orleans in the Eye That puts its manner by For humbler Company When none are near Even a Tear -- Its frequent Visitor --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Bonnet like a Duke -- And yet a Wren's Peruke Were not so shy Of Goer by -- And Hands -- so slight -- They would elate a Sprite With Merriment --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Voice that Alters -- Low And on the Ear can go Like Let of Snow -- Or shift supreme -- As tone of Realm On Subjects Diadem --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo small -- to fear -- Too distant -- to endear -- And so Men Compromise And just -- revere -- The Drop, that wrestles in the Sea -- Forgets her own locality -- As I -- toward Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe knows herself an incense small -- Yet small -- she sighs -- if All -- is All -- How larger -- be?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Ocean -- smiles -- at her Conceit -- But she, forgetting Amphitrite -- Pleads -- "Me"?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d285\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Robin's my Criterion for Tune -- Because I grow -- where Robins do -But, were I Cuckoo born -- I'd swear by him -- The ode familiar -- rules the Noon -- The Buttercup's, my Whim for Bloom -- Because, we're Orchard sprung -- But, were I Britain born, I'd Daisies spurn -- None but the Nut -- October fit -- Because, through dropping it, The Seasons flit -- I'm taught -- Without the Snow's Tableau Winter, were lie -- to me -- Because I see -- New Englandly -- The Queen, discerns like me -- Provincially --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d286\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat after Horror -- that 'twas us -- That passed the mouldering Pier -- Just as the Granite Crumb let go -- Our Savior, by a Hair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA second more, had dropped too deep For Fisherman to plumb -- The very profile of the Thought Puts Recollection numb --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe possibility -- to pass Without a Moment's Bell -- Into Conjecture's presence -- Is like a Face of Steel -- That suddenly looks into ours With a metallic grin -- The Cordiality of Death -- Who drills his Welcome in --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d287\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Clock stopped -- Not the Mantel's -- Geneva's farthest skill Can't put the puppet bowing -- That just now dangled still --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn awe came on the Trinket! The Figures hunched, with pain -- Then quivered out of Decimals -- Into Degreeless Noon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt will not stir for Doctors -- This Pendulum of snow -- This Shopman importunes it -- While cool -- concernless No --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNods from the Gilded pointers -- Nods from the Seconds slim -- Decades of Arrogance between The Dial life -- And Him -- I'm Nobody! Who are you? Are you -- Nobody -- Too? Then there's a pair of us! Don't tell! they'd advertise -- you know!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow dreary -- to be -- Somebody! How public -- like a Frog -- To tell one's name -- the livelong June -- To an admiring Bog!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d289\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI know some lonely Houses off the Road A Robber'd like the look of -- Wooden barred, And Windows hanging low, Inviting to -- A Portico, Where two could creep - One -- hand the Tools - The other peep -- To make sure All's Asleep -- Old fashioned eyes -- Not easy to surprise!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow orderly the Kitchen'd look, by night, With just a Clock -- But they could gag the Tick -- And Mice won't bark -- And so the Walls -- don't tell -- None -- will --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA pair of Spectacles ajar just stir -- An Almanac's aware -- Was it the Mat -- winked, Or a Nervous Star? The Moon -- slides down the stair, To see who's there!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere's plunder -- where -- Tankard, or Spoon -- Earring -- or Stone -- A Watch -- Some Ancient Brooch To match the Grandmama -- Staid sleeping -- there --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDay -- rattles -- too Stealth's -- slow -- The Sun has got as far As the third Sycamore -- Screams Chanticleer "Who's there"?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Echoes -- Trains away, Sneer -- "Where"! While the old Couple, just astir, Fancy the Sunrise -- left the door ajar!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d290\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Bronze -- and Blaze -The North -- Tonight -- So adequate -- it forms -- So preconcerted with itself -- So distant -- to alarms -- And Unconcern so sovereign To Universe, or me -- Infects my simple spirit With Taints of Majesty -- Till I take vaster attitudes -- And strut upon my stem -- Disdaining Men, and Oxygen, For Arrogance of them --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Splendors, are Menagerie -- But their Completeless Show Will entertain the Centuries When I, am long ago, An Island in dishonored Grass -- Whom none but Beetles -- know.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d291 How the old Mountains drip with Sunset How the Hemlocks burn -- How the Dun Brake is draped in Cinder By the Wizard Sun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow the old Steeples hand the Scarlet Till the Ball is full -- Have I the lip of the Flamingo That I dare to tell?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen, how the Fire ebbs like Billows -- Touching all the Grass With a departing -- Sapphire -- feature -- As a Duchess passed -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow a small Dusk crawls on the Village Till the Houses blot And the odd Flambeau, no men carry Glimmer on the Street --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow it is Night -- in Nest and Kennel -- And where was the Wood -- Just a Dome of Abyss is Bowing Into Solitude --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
are the Visions flitted Guido -- Titian -- never told -- Domenichino dropped his pencil -- Paralyzed, with Gold --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d292\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf your Nerve, deny you -- Go above your Nerve -- He can lean against the Grave, If he fear to swerve --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat's a steady posture -- Never any bend Held of those Brass arms -- Best Giant made -- If your Soul seesaw -- Lift the Flesh door -- The Poltroon wants Oxygen -- Nothing more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d293\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI got so I could take his name -- Without -- Tremendous gain -- That Stop-sensation -- on my Soul -- And Thunder -- in the Room --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI got so I could walk across That Angle in the floor, Where he turned so, and I turned -- how -- And all our Sinew tore --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI got so I could stir the Box -- In which his letters grew Without that forcing, in my breath -- As Staples -- driven through --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould dimly recollect a Grace -- I think, they call it "God" -- Renowned to ease Extremity -- When Formula, had failed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd shape my Hands -- Petition's way, Tho' ignorant of a word That Ordination -- utters --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Business, with the Cloud, If any Power behind it, be, Not subject to Despair -- It care, in some remoter way, For so minute affair As Misery - Itself, too vast, for interrupting -- more -- 294\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Doomed -- regard the Sunrise With different Delight -- Because -- when next it burns abroad They doubt to witness it -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Man -- to die -- tomorrow -- Harks for the Meadow Bird -- Because its Music stirs the Axe That clamors for his head --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJoyful -- to whom the Sunrise Precedes Enamored -- Day -- Joyful -- for whom the Meadow Bird Has ought but Elegy!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d295\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnto like Story -- Trouble has enticed me -- How Kinsmen fell -- Brothers and Sister -- who preferred the Glory -- And their young will Bent to the Scaffold, or in Dungeons -- chanted -Till God's full time -- When they let go the ignominy -- smiling -- And Shame went still -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnto guessed Crests, my moaning fancy, leads me, Worn fair By Heads rejected -- in the lower country -- Of honors there -- Such spirit makes her perpetual mention, That I -- grown bold -- Step martial -- at my Crucifixion -- As Trumpets -- rolled -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFeet, small as mine -- have marched in Revolution Firm to the Drum -- Hands -- not so stout -- hoisted them -- in witness -- When Speech went numb -- Let me not shame their sublime deportments -- Drilled bright -- Beckoning -- Etruscan invitation -- Toward Light --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d296\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne Year ago -- jots what? God -- spell the word! I -- can't -- Was't Grace? Not that -- Was't Glory? That -- will do -- Spell slower -- Glory --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuch Anniversary shall be -- Sometimes -- not often -- in Eternity -- When farther Parted, than the Common Woe -- Look -- feed upon each other's faces -- so -- In doubtful meal, if it be possible Their Banquet's true --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI tasted -- careless -- then -- I did not know the Wine Came once a World -- Did you? Oh, had you told me so -- This Thirst would blister -- easier -- now -- You said it hurt you -- most -- Mine -- was an Acorn's Breast -- And could not know how fondness grew In Shaggier Vest -- Perhaps -- I couldn't -- But, had you looked in - A Giant -- eye to eye with you, had been -- No Acorn -- then --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo -- Twelve months ago -- We breathed -- Then dropped the Air -- Which bore it best? Was this -- the patientest -- Because it was a Child, you know -- And could not value -- Air?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf to be "Elder" -- mean most pain -- I'm old enough, today, I'm certain -- then -- As old as thee -- how soon? One -- Birthday more -- or Ten? Let me -- choose! Ah, Sir, None!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d297\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's like the Light -- A fashionless Delight -It's like the Bee -- A dateless -- Melody --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's like the Woods -- Private -- Like the Breeze -- Phraseless -- yet it stirs The proudest Trees --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's like the Morning -- Best -- when it's done -And the Everlasting Clocks -- Chime -- Noon!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d298\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAlone, I cannot be -- For Hosts -- do visit me -- Recordless Company -- Who baffle Key --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey have no Robes, nor Names -- No Almanacs -- nor Climes -- But general Homes Like Gnomes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir Coming, may be known By Couriers within -- Their going -- is not -- For they've never gone -- 299\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYour Riches -- taught me -- Poverty. Myself -- a Millionaire In little Wealths, as Girls could boast Till broad as Buenos Ayre --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou drifted your Dominions -- A Different Peru -- And I esteemed All Poverty For Life's Estate with you --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Mines, I little know -- myself -- But just the names, of Gems -- The Colors of the Commonest -- And scarce of Diadems --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo much, that did I meet the Queen -- Her Glory I should know -- But this, must be a different Wealth -To miss it -- beggars so -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'm sure 'tis India -- all Day -- To those who look on You -- Without a stint -- without a blame, Might I -- but be the Jew --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'm sure it is Golconda -- Beyond my power to deem -- To have a smile for Mine -- each Day, How better, than a Gem!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt least, it solaces to know That there exists -- a Gold -- Altho' I prove it, just in time Its distance -- to behold --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIts far -- far Treasure to surmise -- And estimate the Pearl -- That slipped my simple fingers through -- While just a Girl at School.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 300-399\u13\'0d\u13\'0d300\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Morning" -- means "Milking" -- to the Farmer -- Dawn -- to the Teneriffe -- Dice -- to the Maid -- Morning means just Risk -- to the Lover -- Just revelation -- to the Beloved --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEpicures -- date a Breakfast -- by it -- Brides -- an Apocalypse -- Worlds -- a Flood -- Faint-going Lives -- Their Lapse from Sighing -- Faith -- The Experiment of Our Lord\u13\'0d\u13\'0d301\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI reason, Earth is short -And Anguish -- absolute -- And many hurt, But, what of that?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI reason, we could die -The best Vitality Cannot excel Decay, But, what of that?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI reason, that in Heaven -- Somehow, it will be even -- Some new Equation, given -- But, what of that?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d302\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike Some Old fashioned Miracle When Summertime is done -- Seems Summer's Recollection And the Affairs of June As infinite Tradition As Cinderella's Bays -- Or Little John -- of Lincoln Green -- Or Blue Beard's Galleries --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Bees have a fictitious Hum -- Her Blossoms, like a Dream -- Elate us -- till we almost weep -- So plausible -- they seem --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Memories like Strains -- Review -- When Orchestra is dumb -- The Violin in Baize replaced -- And Ear -- and Heaven -- numb --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d303\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Soul selects her own Society -- Then -- shuts the Door -- To her divine Majority -- Present no more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnmoved -- she notes the Chariots -- pausing -- At her low Gate -- Unmoved -- an Emperor be kneeling Upon her Mat --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI've known her -- from an ample nation -- Choose One -- Then -- close the Valves of her attention -- Like Stone -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d304\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Day came slow -- till Five o'clock -- Then sprang before the Hills Like Hindered Rubies -- or the Light A Sudden Musket -- spills -- The Purple could not keep the East -- The Sunrise shook abroad Like Breadths of Topaz -- packed a Night -- The Lady just unrolled -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Happy Winds -- their Timbrels took -- The Birds -- in docile Rows Arranged themselves around their Prince The Wind -- is Prince of Those --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Orchard sparkled like a Jew -How mighty 'twas -- to be A Guest in this stupendous place -The Parlor -- of the Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d305\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe difference between Despair And Fear -- is like the One Between the instant of a Wreck And when the Wreck has been --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Mind is smooth -- no Motion -- Contented as the Eye Upon the Forehead of a Bust -- That knows -- it cannot see --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d306\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Soul's Superior instants Occur to Her -- alone -- When friend -- and Earth's occasion Have infinite withdrawn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr She -- Herself -- ascended To too remote a Height For lower Recognition Than Her Omnipotent --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis Mortal Abolition Is seldom -- but as fair As Apparition -- subject To Autocratic Air --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEternity's disclosure To favorites -- a few -- Of the Colossal substance Of Immortality\u13\'0d\u13\'0d307\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe One who could repeat the Summer day -- Were greater than itself -- though He Minutest of Mankind should be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd He -- could reproduce the Sun -- At period of going down -- The Lingering -- and the Stain -- I mean --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Orient have been outgrown And Occident -- become Unknown -- His Name -- remain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d308\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI send Two Sunsets -- Day and I -- in competition ran -- I finished Two -- and several Stars -- While He -- was making One --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis own was ampler -- but as I Was saying to a friend - Mine -- is the more convenient To Carry in the Hand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d309 For largest Woman's Hearth I knew -- 'Tis little I can do -- And yet the largest Woman's Heart Could hold an Arrow -- too -- And so, instructed by my own, I tenderer, turn Me to.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d310\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGive little Anguish -- Lives will fret -- Give Avalanches -- And they'll slant -- Straighten -- look cautious for their Breath -- But make no syllable -- like Death -Who only shows the Marble Disc -- Sublimer sort -- than Speech --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d311\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt sifts from Leaden Sieves -- It powders all the Wood. It fills with Alabaster Wool The Wrinkles of the Road --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt makes an Even Face Of Mountain, and of Plain -- Unbroken Forehead from the East Unto the East again --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt reaches to the Fence -It wraps it Rail by Rail Till it is lost in Fleeces -It deals Celestial Vail\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo Stump, and Stack -- and Stem -- A Summer's empty Room -- Acres of Joints, where Harvests were, Recordless, but for them-- It Ruffles Wrists of Posts As Ankles of a Queen -- Then stills its Artisans -- like Ghosts -- Denying they have been --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d312\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer -- "last Poems" -- Poets -- ended -- Silver -- perished -- with her Tongue -- Not on Record -- bubbled other, Flute -- or Woman -- So divine -- Not unto its Summer -- Morning Robin -- uttered Half the Tune -- Gushed too free for the Adoring -- From the Anglo-Florentine -- Late -- the Praise -- 'Tis dull -- conferring On the Head too High to Crown -- Diadem -- or Ducal Showing -- Be its Grave -- sufficient sign -- Nought -- that We -- No Poet's Kinsman -- Suffocate -- with easy woe -- What, and if, Ourself a Bridegroom -- Put Her down -- in Italy?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d313\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
should have been too glad, I see -Too lifted -- for the scant degree Of Life's penurious Round -- My little Circuit would have shamed This new Circumference -- have blamed -- The homelier time behind.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI should have been too saved -- I see -- Too rescued -- Fear too dim to me That I could spell the Prayer I knew so perfect -- yesterday -- That Scalding One -- Sabachthani -Recited fluent -- here -- Earth would have been too much -- I see -- And Heaven -- not enough for me -- I should have had the Joy Without the Fear -- to justify -- The Palm -- without the Calvary -- So Savior -- Crucify -- Defeat -- whets Victory -- they say -- The Reefs -- in old Gethsemane -- Endear the Coast -- beyond! 'Tis Beggars -- Banquets -- can define -- 'Tis Parching -- vitalizes Wine -- "Faith" bleats -- to understand!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d314\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNature -- sometimes sears a Sapling -- Sometimes -- scalps a Tree -- Her Green People recollect it When they do not die -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFainter Leaves -- to Further Seasons -- Dumbly testify -- We -- who have the Souls -- Die oftener -- Not so vitally --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d315\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe fumbles at your Soul As Players at the Keys Before they drop full Music on -- He stuns you by degrees -- Prepares your brittle Nature For the Ethereal Blow By fainter Hammers -- further heard -- Then nearer -- Then so slow Your Breath has time to straighten -Your Brain -- to bubble Cool -- Deals -- One -- imperial -- Thunderbolt -- That scalps your naked Soul -- When Winds take Forests in the Paws -- The Universe -- is still -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d316\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wind didn't come from the Orchard -- today -- Further than that -- Nor stop to play with the Hay -- Nor joggle a Hat -- He's a transitive fellow -- very -- Rely on that --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf He leave a Bur at the door We know He has climbed a Fir -- But the Fir is Where -- Declare -- Were you ever there?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf He brings Odors of Clovers -- And that is His business -- not Ours -- Then He has been with the Mowers -- Whetting away the Hours To sweet pauses of Hay -- His Way -- of a June Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf He fling Sand, and Pebble -- Little Boys Hats -- and Stubble -- With an occasional Steeple -- And a hoarse "Get out of the way, I say," Who'd be the fool to stay? Would you -- Say -- Would you be the fool to stay?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d317\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJust so -- Jesus -- raps - He -- doesn't weary -- Last -- at the Knocker - And first -- at the Bell. Then -- on divinest tiptoe -- standing -- Might He but spy the lady's soul -- When He -- retires -- Chilled -- or weary -- It will be ample time for -- me -- Patient -- upon the steps -- until then -- Hears! I am knocking -- low at thee.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d318\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'll tell you how the Sun rose -- A Ribbon at a time -- The Steeples swam in Amethyst -- The news, like Squirrels, ran -- The Hills untied their Bonnets -- The Bobolinks -- begun -- Then I said softly to myself -- "That must have been the Sun"! But how he set -- I know not -- There seemed a purple stile That little Yellow boys and girls Were climbing all the while -- Till when they reached the other side, A Dominie in Gray -- Put gently up the evening Bars -- And led the flock away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d319\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe nearest Dream recedes -- unrealized -- The Heaven we chase, Like the June Bee -- before the School Boy, Invites the Race -- Stoops -- to an easy Clover -- Dips -- evades -- teases -- deploys -- Then -- to the Royal Clouds Lifts his light Pinnace - Heedless of the Boy -- Staring -- bewildered -- at the mocking sky -- Homesick for steadfast Honey -- Ah, the Bee flies not That brews that rare variety! 320\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe play at Paste -- Till qualified, for Pearl -- Then, drop the Paste -- And deem ourself a fool --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Shapes -- though -- were similar -- And our new Hands Learned Gem-Tactics - Practicing Sands --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d321\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf all the Sounds despatched abroad, There's not a Charge to me Like that old measure in the Boughs -- That phraseless Melody -- The Wind does -- working like a Hand, Whose fingers Comb the Sky -- Then quiver down -- with tufts of Tune -- Permitted Gods, and me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dInheritance, it is, to us - Beyond the Art to Earn -- Beyond the trait to take away By Robber, since the Gain Is gotten not of fingers - And inner than the Bone -- Hid golden, for the whole of Days, And even in the Urn, I cannot vouch the merry Dust Do not arise and play In some odd fashion of its own, Some quainter Holiday, When Winds go round and round in Bands -- And thrum upon the door, And Birds take places, overhead, To bear them Orchestra.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI crave Him grace of Summer Boughs, If such an Outcast be - Who never heard that fleshless Chant -- Rise -- solemn -- on the Tree, As if some Caravan of Sound Off Deserts, in the Sky, Had parted Rank, Then knit, and swept -- In Seamless Company --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d322\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere came a Day at Summer's full, Entirely for me -- I thought that such were for the Saints, Where Resurrections -- be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun, as common, went abroad, The flowers, accustomed, blew, As if no soul the solstice passed That maketh all things new --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe time was scarce profaned, by speech -- The symbol of a word Was needless, as at Sacrament, The Wardrobe -- of our Lord --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEach was to each The Sealed Church, Permitted to commune this -- time -- Lest we too awkward show At Supper of the Lamb.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Hours slid fast -- as Hours will, Clutched tight, by greedy hands -- So faces on two Decks, look back, Bound to opposing lands --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so when all the time had leaked, Without external sound Each bound the Other's Crucifix -- We gave no other Bond --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSufficient troth, that we shall rise -- Deposed -- at length, the Grave -- To that new Marriage, Justified -- through Calvaries of Love --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d323\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs if I asked a common Alms, And in my wondering hand A Stranger pressed a Kingdom, And I, bewildered, stand -- As if I asked the Orient Had it for me a Morn -- And it should lift its purple Dikes, And shatter me with Dawn!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d324\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome keep the Sabbath going to Church -- I keep it, staying at Home -- With a Bobolink for a Chorister -- And an Orchard, for a Dome --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome keep the Sabbath in Surplice -I just wear my Wings -- And instead of tolling the Bell, for Church, Our little Sexton -- sings.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGod preaches, a noted Clergyman -- And the sermon is never long, So instead of getting to Heaven, at least -- I'm going, all along.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d325\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Tribulation, these are They, Denoted by the White - The Spangled Gowns, a lesser Rank Of Victors -- designate - All these -- did conquer -- But the ones who overcame most times -- Wear nothing commoner than Snow -- No Ornament, but Palms --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSurrender -- is a sort unknown -- On this superior soil -- Defeat -- an outgrown Anguish -- Remembered, as the Mile\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur panting Ankle barely passed -- When Night devoured the Road -- But we -- stood whispering in the House -- And all we said -- was "Saved"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d326\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cannot dance upon my Toes -- No Man instructed me -- But oftentimes, among my mind, A Glee possesseth me,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat had I Ballet knowledge -- Would put itself abroad In Pirouette to blanch a Troupe -- Or lay a Prima, mad,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd though I had no Gown of Gauze -- No Ringlet, to my Hair, Nor hopped to Audiences -- like Birds, One Claw upon the Air,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor tossed my shape in Eider Balls, Nor rolled on wheels of snow Till I was out of sight, in sound, The House encore me so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor any know I know the Art I mention -- easy -- Here -- Nor any Placard boast me -- It's full as Opera -- Before I got my eye put out I liked as well to see -- As other Creatures, that have Eyes And know no other way --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut were it told to me -- Today -- That I might have the sky For mine -- I tell you that my Heart Would split, for size of me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Meadows -- mine -- The Mountains -- mine -- All Forests -- Stintless Stars -- As much of Noon as I could take Between my finite eyes -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Motions of the Dipping Birds -- The Morning's Amber Road -- For mine -- to look at when I liked -The News would strike me dead --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo safer -- guess -- with just my soul Upon the Window pane -- Where other Creatures put their eyes -- Incautious -- of the Sun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d328\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Bird came down the Walk -- He did not know I saw -- He bit an Angleworm in halves And ate the fellow, raw,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then he drank a Dew From a convenient Grass -- And then hopped sidewise to the Wall To let a Beetle pass --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe glanced with rapid eyes That hurried all around -They looked like frightened Beads, I thought -- He stirred his Velvet Head\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike one in danger, Cautious, I offered him a Crumb And he unrolled his feathers And rowed him softer home --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThan Oars divide the Ocean, Too silver for a seam -- Or Butterflies, off Banks of Noon Leap, plashless as they swim.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d329\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo glad we are -- a Stranger'd deem 'Twas sorry, that we were -- For where the Holiday should be There publishes a Tear - Nor how Ourselves be justified -- Since Grief and Joy are done So similar -- An Optizan Could not decide between --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d330 The Juggler's Hat her Country is -- The Mountain Gorse -- the Bee's! 331\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhile Asters -- On the Hill -- Their Everlasting fashions -- set -- And Covenant Gentians -- Frill! There are two Ripenings -- one -- of sight -- Whose forces Spheric wind Until the Velvet product Drop spicy to the ground -- A homelier maturing -- A process in the Bur -- That teeth of Frosts alone disclose In far October Air.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d333\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Grass so little has to do -- A Sphere of simple Green -- With only Butterflies to brood And Bees to entertain -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd stir all day to pretty Tunes The Breezes fetch along -- And hold the Sunshine in its lap And bow to everything --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd thread the Dews, all night, like Pearls -- And make itself so fine A Duchess were too common For such a noticing --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd even when it dies -- to pass In Odors so divine -- Like Lowly spices, lain to sleep -- Or Spikenards, perishing --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then, in Sovereign Barns to dwell -- And dream the Days away, The Grass so little has to do I wish I were a Hay --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d334 All the letters I can write Are not fair as this -- Syllables of Velvet -- Sentences of Plush, Depths of Ruby, undrained, Hid, Lip, for}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Thee -- Play it were a Humming Bird -- And just sipped -- me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d335\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis not that Dying hurts us so -- 'Tis Living -- hurts us more -- But Dying -- is a different way -- A Kind behind the Door --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Southern Custom -- of the Bird -- That ere the Frosts are due -- Accepts a better Latitude -- We -- are the Birds -- that stay.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Shrivers round Farmers' doors -- For whose reluctant Crumb -- We stipulate -- till pitying Snows Persuade our Feathers Home.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d336\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe face I carry with me -- last -- When I go out of Time -- To take my Rank -- by -- in the West -- That face -- will just be thine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'll hand it to the Angel -- That -- Sir -- was my Degree -- In Kingdoms -- you have heard the Raised -- Refer to -- possibly.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe'll take it -- scan it -- step aside -- Return -- with such a crown As Gabriel -- never capered at -- And beg me put it on -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then -- he'll turn me round and round -- To an admiring sky -- As one that bore her Master's name -- Sufficient Royalty!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d337\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI know a place where Summer strives With such a practised Frost -- She -- each year -- leads her Daisies back -- Recording briefly -- "Lost" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut when the South Wind stirs the Pools And struggles in the lanes -- Her Heart misgives Her, for Her Vow -- And she pours soft Refrains\u13\'0d\u13\'0dInto the lap of Adamant -- And spices -- and the Dew -- That stiffens quietly to Quartz -- Upon her Amber Shoe --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d338\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI know that He exists. Somewhere -- in Silence -- He has hid his rare life From our gross eyes.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis an instant's play. 'Tis a fond Ambush -- Just to make Bliss Earn her own surprise!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut -- should the play Prove piercing earnest -Should the glee -- glaze -- In Death's -- stiff -- stare --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWould not the fun Look too expensive! Would not the jest -- Have crawled too far!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d339\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI tend my flowers for thee -- Bright Absentee! My Fuchsia's Coral Seams Rip -- while the Sower -- dreams --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGeraniums -- tint -- and spot -- Low Daisies -- dot -- My Cactus -- splits her Beard To show her throat --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCarnations -- tip their spice -- And Bees -- pick up -- A Hyacinth -- I hid -- Puts out a Ruffled Head -- And odors fall From flasks -- so small -You marvel how they held --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGlobe Roses -- break their satin flake -- Upon my Garden floor - Yet -- thou -- not there -- I had as lief they bore No Crimson -- more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThy flower -- be gay -- Her Lord -- away! It ill becometh me -- I'll dwell in Calyx -- Gray -- How modestly -- alway -- Thy Daisy -- Draped for thee! Is Bliss then, such Abyss, I must not put my foot amiss For fear I spoil my shoe?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'd rather suit my foot Than save my Boot -- For yet to buy another Pair Is possible, At any store --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut Bliss, is sold just once. The Patent lost None buy it any more -- Say, Foot, decide the point -- The Lady cross, or not? Verdict for Boot!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d341\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAfter great pain, a formal feeling comes -- The Nerves sit ceremonious, like Tombs -- The stiff Heart questions was it He, that bore, And Yesterday, or Centuries before?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Feet, mechanical, go round -- Of Ground, or Air, or Ought -- A Wooden way Regardless grown, A Quartz contentment, like a stone -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis is the Hour of Lead -- Remembered, if outlived, As Freezing persons, recollect the Snow -- First -- Chill -- then Stupor -- then the letting go -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d342\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt will be Summer -- eventually. Ladies -- with parasols - Sauntering Gentlemen -- with Canes -- And little Girls -- with Dolls --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWill tint the pallid landscape -- As 'twere a bright Bouquet -- Thro' drifted deep, in Parian -- The Village lies -- today --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lilacs -- bending many a year -- Will sway with purple load -- The Bees -- will not despise the tune -- Their Forefathers -- have hummed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wild Rose -- redden in the Bog -- The Aster -- on the Hill Her everlasting fashion -- set -- And Covenant Gentians -- frill --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill Summer folds her miracle -- As Women -- do -- their Gown -- Of Priests -- adjust the Symbols -- When Sacrament -- is done --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d343\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Reward for Being, was This. My premium -- My Bliss -- An Admiralty, less -- A Sceptre -- penniless -- And Realms -- just Dross --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Thrones accost my Hands -- With "Me, Miss, Me" -- I'll unroll Thee -- Dominions dowerless -- beside this Grace -- Election -- Vote -- The Ballots of Eternity, will show just that. 'Twas the old -- road -- through pain -- That unfrequented -- one -- With many a turn -- and thorn -- That stops -- at Heaven --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis -- was the Town -- she passed -There -- where she -- rested -- last -Then -- stepped more fast -- The little tracks -- close prest -- Then -- not so swift -- Slow -- slow -- as feet did weary -- grow -- Then -- stopped -- no other track!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWait! Look! Her little Book -- The leaf -- at love -- turned back -- Her very Hat -- And this worn shoe just fits the track -- Herself -- though -- fled!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnother bed -- a short one -- Women make -- tonight -- In Chambers bright -- Too out of sight -- though -- For our hoarse Good Night -- To touch her Head!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d345\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFunny -- to be a Century -- And see the People -- going by -- I -- should die of the Oddity -- But then -- I'm not so staid -- as He --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe keeps His Secrets safely -- very -- Were He to tell -- extremely sorry This Bashful Globe of Ours would be -- So dainty of Publicity -- Not probable -- The barest Chance -- A smile too few -- a word too much And far from Heaven as the Rest -- The Soul so close on Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat if the Bird from journey far -- Confused by Sweets -- as Mortals -- are -- Forget the secret of His wing And perish -- but a Bough between -- Oh, Groping feet -- Oh Phantom Queen!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d347\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Night is almost done -- And Sunrise grows so near That we can touch the Spaces -- It's time to smooth the Hair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd get the Dimples ready -- And wonder we could care For that old -- faded Midnight -- That frightened -- but an Hour --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d348\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI dreaded that first Robin, so, But He is mastered, now, I'm accustomed to Him grown, He hurts a little, though -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI thought If I could only live Till that first Shout got by -- Not all Pianos in the Woods Had power to mangle me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI dared not meet the Daffodils -- For fear their Yellow Gown Would pierce me with a fashion So foreign to my own --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI wished the Grass would hurry -- So -- when 'twas time to see -- He'd be too tall, the tallest one Could stretch -- to look at me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could not bear the Bees should come, I wished they'd stay away In those dim countries where they go, What word had they, for me?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey're here, though; not a creature failed -- No Blossom stayed away In gentle deference to me -- The Queen of Calvary --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEach one salutes me, as he goes, And I, my childish Plumes, Lift, in bereaved acknowledgment Of their unthinking Drums --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d349\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI had the Glory -- that will do -- An Honor, Thought can turn her to When lesser Fames invite -- With one long "Nay" -- Bliss' early shape Deforming -- Dwindling -- Gulfing up -- Time's possibility.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d350\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey leave us with the Infinite. But He -- is not a man -- His fingers are the size of fists -- His fists, the size of men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd whom he foundeth, with his Arm As Himmaleh, shall stand -- Gibraltar's Everlasting Shoe Poised lightly on his Hand, So trust him, Comrade -- You for you, and I, for you and me Eternity is ample, And quick enough, if true.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d351\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI felt my life with both my hands To see if it was there -- I held my spirit to the Glass, To prove it possibler --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI turned my Being round and round And paused at every pound To ask the Owner's name -- For doubt, that I should know the Sound --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI judged my features -- jarred my hair -- I pushed my dimples by, and waited -- If they -- twinkled back - Conviction might, of me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI told myself, "Take Courage, Friend -- That -- was a former time -- But we might learn to like the Heaven, As well as our Old Home!"\u13\'0d\u13\'0d352\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps I asked too large -- I take -- no less than skies -- For Earths, grow thick as Berries, in my native town --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Basked holds -- just -- Firmaments -- Those -- dangle easy -- on my arm, But smaller bundles -- Cram. 353\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA happy lip -- breaks sudden -- It doesn't state you how It contemplated -- smiling -- Just consummated -- now -- But this one, wears its merriment So patient -- like a pain - Fresh gilded -- to elude the eyes Unqualified, to scan --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d354\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrom Cocoon forth a Butterfly As Lady from her Door Emerged -- a Summer Afternoon -- Repairing Everywhere --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithout Design -- that I could trace Except to stray abroad On Miscellaneous Enterprise The Clovers -- understood --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer pretty Parasol be seen Contracting in a Field Where Men made Hay -- Then struggling hard With an opposing Cloud --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhere Parties -- Phantom as Herself -- To Nowhere -- seemed to go In purposeless Circumference -- As 'twere a Tropic Show --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd notwithstanding Bee -- that worked -- And Flower -- that zealous blew -- This Audience of Idleness Disdained them, from the Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill Sundown crept -- a steady Tide -- And Men that made the Hay -- And Afternoon -- and Butterfly -- Extinguished -- in the Sea --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d355\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Opposites -- entice - Deformed Men -- ponder Grace -- Bright fires -- the Blanketless -- The Lost -- Day's face --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Blind -- esteem it be Enough Estate -- to see -- The Captive -- strangles new -- For deeming -- Beggars -- play --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo lack -- enamor Thee -- Tho' the Divinity -- Be only Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d356\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Day that I was crowned Was like the other Days -- Until the Coronation came -- And then -- 'twas Otherwise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Carbon in the Coal And Carbon in the Gem Are One -- and yet the former Were dull for Diadem --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI rose, and all was plain -But when the Day declined Myself and It, in Majesty Were equally -- adorned --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Grace that I -- was chose -- To Me -- surpassed the Crown That was the Witness for the Grace -- 'Twas even that 'twas Mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d357\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGod is a distant -- stately Lover -- Woos, as He states us -- by His Son -- Verily, a Vicarious Courtship -- "Miles", and "Priscilla", were such an One --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut, lest the Soul}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
-- like fair "Priscilla" Choose the Envoy -- and spurn the Groom -- Vouches, with hyperbolic archness -"Miles", and "John Alden" were Synonym --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d358\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf any sink, assure that this, now standing -- Failed like Themselves -- and conscious that it rose -- Grew by the Fact, and not the Understanding How Weakness passed -- or Force -- arose --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTell that the Worst, is easy in a Moment -- Dread, but the Whizzing, before the Ball -- When the Ball enters, enters Silence -- Dying -- annuls the power to kill.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d359\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI gained it so -- By Climbing slow -- By Catching at the Twigs that grow Between the Bliss -- and me -- It hung so high As well the Sky Attempt by Strategy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI said I gained it -- This -- was all -- Look, how I clutch it Lest it fall - And I a Pauper go -- Unfitted by an instant's Grace For the Contented -- Beggar's face I wore -- an hour ago --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d360\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeath sets a Thing significant The Eye had hurried by Except a perished Creature Entreat us tenderly\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo ponder little Workmanships In Crayon, or in Wool, With "This was last Her fingers did" -Industrious until --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Thimble weighed too heavy -- The stitches stopped -- by themselves -- And then 'twas put among the Dust Upon the Closet shelves --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Book I have -- a friend gave -- Whose Pencil -- here and there -- Had notched the place that pleased Him -- At Rest -- His fingers are --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNow -- when I read -- I read not -- For interrupting Tears - Obliterate the Etchings Too Costly for Repairs.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d361\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat I can do -- I will - Though it be little as a Daffodil -- That I cannot -- must be Unknown to possibility -- 362\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt struck me -- every Day -- The Lightning was as new As if the Cloud that instant slit And let the Fire through --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt burned Me -- in the Night -- It Blistered to My Dream -- It sickened fresh upon my sight -- With every Morn that came --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI though that Storm -- was brief -- The Maddest -- quickest by -- But Nature lost the Date of This -- And left it in the Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d363\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI went to thank Her -- But She Slept -- Her Bed -- a funneled Stone -- With Nosegays at the Head and Foot -- That Travellers -- had thrown --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho went to thank Her -- But She Slept -- 'Twas Short -- to cross the Sea -- To look upon Her like -- alive -- But turning back -- 'twas slow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d364\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Morning after Woe -- 'Tis frequently the Way -- Surpasses all that rose before -- For utter Jubilee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Nature did not care -And piled her Blossoms on -- And further to parade a Joy Her Victim stared upon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Birds declaim their Tunes -- Pronouncing every word Like Hammers -- Did they know they fell Like Litanies of Lead --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn here and there -- a creature -- They'd modify the Glee To fit some Crucifixal Clef -- Some Key of Calvary --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d365\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDare you see a Soul at the White Heat? Then crouch within the door -- Red -- is the Fire's common tint -- But when the vivid Ore Has vanquished Flame's conditions, It quivers from the Forge Without a color, but the light Of unanointed Blaze. Least Village has its Blacksmith Whose Anvil's even ring Stands symbol for the finer Forge That soundless tugs -- within -- Refining these impatient Ores With Hammer, and with Blaze Until the Designated Light Repudiate the Forge --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d366\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAlthough I put away his life -- An Ornament too grand For Forehead low as mine, to wear, This might have been the Hand\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat sowed the flower, he preferred -- Or smoothed a homely pain, Or pushed the pebble from his path -- Or played his chosen tune --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn Lute the least -- the latest -- But just his Ear could know That whatsoe'er delighted it, I never would let go --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe foot to bear his errand -- A little Boot I know -- Would leap abroad like Antelope -- With just the grant to do --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis weariest Commandment -- A sweeter to obey, Than "Hide and Seek" -- Or skip to Flutes -- Or all Day, chase the Bee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYour Servant, Sir, will weary -- The Surgeon, will not come -- The World, will have its own -- to do -- The Dust, will vex your Fame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Cold will force your tightest door Some February Day, But say my apron bring the sticks To make your Cottage gay --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat I may take that promise To Paradise, with me -- To teach the Angels, avarice, You, Sir, taught first -- to me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d367\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOver and over, like a Tune -- The Recollection plays - Drums off the Phantom Battlements Cornets of Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSnatches, from Baptized Generations -- Cadences too grand But for the Justified Processions At the Lord's Right hand.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d368\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow sick -- to wait -- in any place -- but thine -- I knew last night -- when someone tried to twine -- Thinking -- perhaps -- that I looked tired -- or alone -- Or breaking -- almost -- with unspoken pain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd I turned -- ducal -- That right -- was thine -- One port -- suffices -- for a Brig -- like mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOurs be the tossing -- wild though the sea -- Rather than a Mooring -- unshared by thee. Ours be the Cargo -- unladed -- here -- Rather than the "spicy isles --" And thou -- not there --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d369\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe lay as if at play Her life had leaped away -- Intending to return -- But not so soon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer merry Arms, half dropt -- As if for lull of sport -- An instant had forgot -- The Trick to start --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer dancing Eyes -- ajar -- As if their Owner were Still sparkling through For fun -- at you --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Morning at the door -- Devising, I am sure -- To force her sleep -- So light -- so deep --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d370\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHeaven is so far of the Mind That were the Mind dissolved -- The Site -- of it -- by Architect Could not again be proved --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis vast -- as our Capacity -- As fair -- as our idea -- To Him of adequate desire No further 'tis, than Here --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d371\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA precious -- mouldering pleasure -- 'tis -- To meet an Antique Book -- In just the Dress his Century wore -- A privilege -- I think --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis venerable Hand to take -- And warming in our own -- A passage back -- or two -- to make -- To Times when he -- was young --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis quaint opinions -- to inspect -- His thought to ascertain On Themes concern our mutual mind -- The Literature of Man --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat interested Scholars -- most -- What Competitions ran - When Plato -- was a Certainty -- And Sophocles -- a Man --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Sappho -- was a living Girl -- And Beatrice wore The Gown that Dante -- deified -- Facts Centuries before\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe traverses -- familiar - As One should come to Town -- And tell you all your Dreams -- were true -- He lived -- where Dreams were born --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis presence is Enchantment -- You beg him not to go -- Old Volume shake their Vellum Heads And tantalize -- just so -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d372\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI know lives, I could miss Without a Misery -- Others -- whose instant's wanting -- Would be Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe last -- a scanty Number -- 'Twould scarcely fill a Two -- The first -- a Gnat's Horizon Could easily outgrow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d373\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'm saying every day "If I should be a Queen, tomorrow" -- I'd do this way -- And so I deck, a little,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf it be, I wake a Bourbon, None on me, bend supercilious -- With "This was she -- Begged in the Market place -- Yesterday."\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCourt is a stately place - I've heard men say -- So I loop my apron, against the Majesty With bright Pins of Buttercup -- That not too plain -- Rank -- overtake me -- And perch my Tongue On Twigs of singing -- rather high -But this, might be my brief Term To qualify --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPut from my simple speech all plain word -- Take other accents, as such I heard Though but for the Cricket -- just, And but for the Bee -- Not in all the Meadow -- One accost me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBetter to be ready -- Than did next morn Meet me in Aragon -- My old Gown -- on --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd the surprised Air Rustics -- wear -- Summoned -- unexpectedly -- To Exeter --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d374\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI went to Heaven -- 'Twas a small Town -- Lit -- with a Ruby -- Lathed -- with Down --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStiller -- than the fields At the full Dew -- Beautiful -- as Pictures -No Man drew. People -- like the Moth -- Of Mechlin -- frames -- Duties -- of Gossamer -And Eider -- names -- Almost -- contented -- I -- could be -- 'Mong such unique Society -- The Angle of a Landscape -- That every time I wake -- Between my Curtain and the Wall Upon an ample Crack -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike a Venetian -- waiting -- Accosts my open eye -- Is just a Bough of Apples -- Held slanting, in the Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Pattern of a Chimney -- The Forehead of a Hill - Sometimes -- a Vane's Forefinger -- But that's -- Occasional -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Seasons -- shift -- my Picture -- Upon my Emerald Bough, I wake -- to find no -- Emeralds -- Then -- Diamonds -- which the Snow\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrom Polar Caskets -- fetched me -- The Chimney -- and the Hill -- And just the Steeple's finger -- These -- never stir at all --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d376\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Course -- I prayed -- And did God Care? He cared as much as on the Air A Bird -- had stamped her foot -- And cried "Give Me" -- My Reason -- Life -- I had not had -- but for Yourself -- 'Twere better Charity To leave me in the Atom's Tomb -- Merry, and Nought, and gay, and numb -- Than this smart Misery. To lose one's faith -- surpass The loss of an Estate -- Because Estates can be Replenished -- faith cannot --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dInherited with Life -- Belief -- but once -- can be -- Annihilate a single clause -- And Being's -- Beggary --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d378\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI saw no Way -- The Heavens were stitched -- I felt the Columns close -- The Earth reversed her Hemispheres -- I touched the Universe --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd back it slid -- and I alone -- A Speck upon a Ball - Went out upon Circumference -- Beyond the Dip of Bell --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d379\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRehearsal to Ourselves Of a Withdrawn Delight -- Affords a Bliss like Murder -- Omnipotent -- Acute --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe will not drop the Dirk -- Because We love the Wound The Dirk Commemorate -- Itself Remind Us that we died. There is a flower that Bees prefer -And Butterflies -- desire -- To gain the Purple Democrat The Humming Bird -- aspire --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Whatsoever Insect pass -- A Honey bear away Proportioned to his several dearth And her -- capacity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer face be rounder than the Moon And ruddier than the Gown Or Orchis in the Pasture -- Or Rhododendron -- worn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe doth not wait for June -- Before the World be}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Green -- Her sturdy little Countenance Against the Wind -- be seen --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dContending with the Grass -- Near Kinsman to Herself -- For Privilege of Sod and Sun -- Sweet Litigants for Life -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when the Hills be full -- And newer fashions blow -- Doth not retract a single spice For pang of jealousy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Public -- be the Noon -- Her Providence -- the Sun -- Her Progress -- by the Bee -- proclaimed -- In sovereign -- Swerveless Tune --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Bravest -- of the Host -- Surrendering -- the last -- Nor even of Defeat -- aware -- What cancelled by the Frost --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d381 A Secret told -- Ceases to be a Secret -- then -- A Secret -- kept -- That -- can appal but One --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBetter of it -- continual be afraid -- Than it -- And Whom you told it to -- beside -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d382\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor Death -- or rather For the Things 'twould buy -- This -- put away Life's Opportunity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Things that Death will buy Are Room -- Escape from Circumstances -- And a Name --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith Gifts of Life How Death's Gifts may compare -- We know not -- For the Rates -- lie Here --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d383\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExhilaration -- is within -There can no Outer Wine So royally intoxicate As that diviner Brand\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Soul achieves -- Herself -- To drink -- or set away For Visitor -- Or Sacrament -- 'Tis not of Holiday\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo stimulate a Man Who hath the Ample Rhine Within his Closet -- Best you can Exhale in offering.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d384\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Rack can torture me -- My Soul -- at Liberty -- Behind this mortal Bone There knits a bolder One --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou cannot prick with saw -- Nor pierce with Scimitar -- Two Bodies -- therefore be -- Bind One -- The Other fly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Eagle of his Nest No easier divest -- And gain the Sky Than mayest Thou --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExcept Thyself may be Thine Enemy -- Captivity is Consciousness -- So's Liberty.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d385\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSmiling back from Coronation May be Luxury -- On the Heads that started with us -Being's Peasantry --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRecognizing in Procession Ones We former knew -- When Ourselves were also dusty -Centuries ago --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad the Triumph no Conviction Of how many be -- Stimulated -- by the Contrast -- Unto Misery --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d386\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnswer July -- Where is the Bee -- Where is the Blush -- Where is the Hay?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAh, said July -- Where is the Seed -- Where is the Bud -- Where is the May -- Answer Thee -- Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNay -- said the May -- Show me the Snow -- Show me the Bells -- Show me the Jay!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dQuibbled the Jay -- Where be the Maize -- Where be the Haze -- Where be the Bur? Here -- said the Year --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d387\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe sweetest Heresy received That Man and Woman know -- Each Other's Convert -- Though the Faith accommodate but Two --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Churches are so frequent -- The Ritual -- so small - The Grace so unavoidable -- To fail -- is Infidel -- 388\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTake your Heaven further on -- This -- to Heaven divine Has gone -- Had You earlier blundered in Possibly, e'en You had seen An Eternity -- put on -- Now -- to ring a Door beyond Is the utmost of Your Hand -- To the Skies -- apologize -- Nearer to Your Courtesies Than this Sufferer polite -- Dressed to meet You -- See -- in White!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d389\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere's been a Death, in the Opposite House, As lately as Today -- I know it, by the numb look Such Houses have -- alway --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Neighbors rustle in and out -- The Doctor -- drives away -- A Window opens like a Pod -- Abrupt -- mechanically --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSomebody flings a Mattress out -- The Children hurry by -- They wonder if it died -- on that -- I used to -- when a Boy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Minister -- goes stiffly in -- As if the House were His -- And He owned all the Mourners -- now -- And little Boys -- besides --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then the Milliner -- and the Man Of the Appalling Trade - To take the measure of the House -- There'll be that Dark Parade --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Tassels -- and of Coaches -- soon -- It's easy as a Sign -- The Intuition of the News -- In just a Country Town --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d390\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's coming -- the postponeless Creature -- It gains the Block -- and now -- it gains the Door -- Chooses its latch, from all the other fastenings -Enters -- with a "You know Me -- Sir"?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSimple Salute -- and certain Recognition -- Bold -- were it Enemy -- Brief -- were it friend -- Dresses each House in Crape, and Icicle -- And carries one -- out of it -- to God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d391\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Visitor in Marl -- Who influences Flowers -- Till they are orderly as Busts -- And Elegant -- as Glass --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho visits in the Night -- And just before the Sun -- Concludes his glistening interview -- Caresses -- and is gone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut whom his fingers touched -- And where his feet have run -- And whatsoever Mouth be kissed -- Is as it had not been --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d392\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThrough the Dark Sod -- as Education -- The Lily passes sure -- Feels her white foot -- no trepidation -- Her faith -- no fear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAfterward -- in the Meadow -- Swinging her Beryl Bell -- The Mold-life -- all forgotten -- now -- In Ecstasy -- and Dell --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d393\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDid Our Best Moment last -- 'Twould supersede the Heaven -- A few -- and they by Risk -- procure -- So this Sort -- are not given --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExcept as stimulants -- in Cases of Despair -- Or Stupor -- The Reserve -- These Heavenly Moments are --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Grant of the Divine -- That Certain as it Comes -- Withdraws -- and leaves the dazzled Soul In her unfurnished Rooms\u13\'0d\u13\'0d394\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas Love -- not me -- Oh punish -- pray -- The Real one died for Thee -- Just Him -- not me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuch Guilt -- to love Thee -- most! Doom it beyond the Rest -- Forgive it -- last -- 'Twas base as Jesus -- most!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet Justice not mistake -- We Two -- looked so alike -- Which was the Guilty Sake -- 'Twas Love's -- Now Strike! 395\u13\'0d\u13\'0dReverse cannot befall That fine Prosperity Whose Sources are interior -- As soon -- Adversity\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Diamond -- overtake In far -- Bolivian Ground -- Misfortune hath no implement Could mar it -- if it found --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d396\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is a Languor of the Life More imminent than Pain -- 'Tis Pain's Successor -- When the Soul Has suffered all it can -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Drowsiness -- diffuses -- A Dimness like a Fog Envelops Consciousness -- As Mists -- obliterate a Crag.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Surgeon -- does not blanch -- at pain His Habit -- is severe -- But tell him that it ceased to feel -- The Creature lying there --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd he will tell you -- skill is late -- A Mightier than He -- Has ministered before Him -- There's no Vitality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d397\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Diamonds are a Legend, And Diadems -- a Tale - I Brooch and Earrings for Myself, Do sow, and Raise for sale --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd tho' I'm scarce accounted, My Art, a Summer Day -- had Patrons -- Once -- it was a Queen -- And once -- a Butterfly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d398\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI had not minded -- Walls -- Were Universe -- one Rock -- And fr I heard his silver Call The other side the Block --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'd tunnel -- till my Groove Pushed sudden thro' to his -- Then my face take her Recompense -- The looking in his Eyes -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut 'tis a single Hair -- A filament -- a law -- A Cobweb -- wove in Adamant -- A Battlement -- of Straw --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA limit like the Veil Unto the Lady's face -- But every Mesh -- a Citadel -- And Dragons -- in the Crease --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d399\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA House upon the Height -- That Wagon never reached -- No Dead, were ever carried down -- No Peddler's Cart -- approached --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhose Chimney never smoked -- Whose Windows -- Night and Morn -- Caught Sunrise first -- and Sunset -- last -- Then -- held an Empty Pane --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhose fate -- Conjecture knew -- No other neighbor -- did -- And what it was -- we never lisped -- Because He -- never told \u8211\'96\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 400-499\u13\'0d\u13\'0d400\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Tongue -- to tell Him I am true! Its fee -- to be of Gold -- Had Nature -- in Her monstrous House A single Ragged Child --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo earn a Mine -- would run That Interdicted Way, And tell Him -- Charge thee speak it plain -- That so far -- Truth is True?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd answer What I do -- Beginning with the Day That Night -- begun -- Nay -- Midnight -- 'twas -- Since Midnight -- happened -- say --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf once more -- Pardon -- Boy -- The Magnitude thou may Enlarge my Message -- If too vast Another Lad -- help thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThy Pay -- in Diamonds -- be -- And His -- in solid Gold - Say Rubies -- if He hesitate -- My Message -- must be told --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSay -- last I said -- was This -- That when the Hills -- come down -- And hold no higher than the Plain -My Bond -- have just begun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when the Heavens -- disband -And Deity conclude -- Then -- look for me. Be sure you say -- Least Figure -- on the Road --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d401 What Soft -- Cherubic Creatures -- These Gentlewomen are -- One would as soon assault a Plush -- Or violate a Star --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuch Dimity Convictions -- A Horror so refined Of freckled Human Nature -- Of Deity -- ashamed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's such a common -- Glory -- A Fisherman's -- Degree -- Redemption -- Brittle Lady -- Be so -- ashamed of Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d402\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI pay -- in Satin Cash -- You did not state -- your price -- A Petal, for a Paragraph It near as I can guess --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d403\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Winters are so short -- I'm hardly justified In sending all the Birds away -- And moving into Pod --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMyself -- for scarcely settled -- The Phoebes have begun -- And then -- it's time to strike my Tent -- And open House -- again --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's mostly, interruptions -- My Summer -- is despoiled -- Because there was a Winter -- once -- And al the Cattle -- starved --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so there was a Deluge -- And swept the World away -- But Ararat's a Legend -- now -- And no one credits Noah --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d404\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow many Flowers fail in Wood -- Or perish from the Hill -- Without the privilege to know That they are Beautiful -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow many cast a nameless Pod Upon the nearest Breeze -- Unconscious of the Scarlet Freight -It bear to Other Eyes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d405\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt might be lonelier Without the Loneliness -- I'm so accustomed to my Fate -- Perhaps the Other -- Peace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWould interrupt the Dark -- And crowd the little Room -- Too scant -- by Cubits -- to contain The Sacrament -- of Him --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI am not used to Hope -- It might intrude upon -- Its sweet parade -- blaspheme the place -- Ordained to Suffering --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt might be easier To fail -- with Land in Sight -- Than gain -- My Blue Peninsula -- To perish -- of Delight -- 406\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome -- Work for Immortality -- The Chiefer part, for Time -- He -- Compensates -- immediately}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
-- The former -- Checks -- on Fame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSlow Gold -- but Everlasting -- The Bullion of Today -- Contrasted with the Currency Of Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Beggar -- Here and There -- Is gifted to discern Beyond the Broker's insight -- One's -- Money -- One's -- the Mine -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d407 If What we could -- were what we would -- Criterion -- be small -- It is the Ultimate of Talk -- The Impotence to Tell -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d408\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnit, like Death, for Whom? True, like the Tomb, Who tells no secret Told to Him -- The Grave is strict -- Tickets admit Just two -- the Bearer -- And the Borne -- And seat -- just One -- The Living -- tell -- The Dying -- but a Syllable -- The Coy Dead -- None -- No Chatter -- here -- no tea -- So Babbler, and Bohea -- stay there -- But Gravity -- and Expectation -- and Fear -- A tremor just, that All's not sure.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d409\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey dropped like Flakes -- They dropped like Stars -- Like Petals from a Rose -- When suddenly across the June A wind with fingers -- goes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey perished in the Seamless Grass -- No eye could find the place -- But God can summon every face Of his Repealless -- List.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d410\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe first Day's Night had come -- And grateful that a thing So terrible -- had been endured -- I told my Soul to sing -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe said her Strings were snapt -- Her Bow -- to Atoms blown -- And so to mend her -- gave me work Until another Morn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then -- a Day as huge As Yesterdays in pairs, Unrolled its horror in my face -- Until it blocked my eyes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Brain -- begun to laugh -- I mumbled -- like a fool - And tho' 'tis Years ago -- that Day -- My Brain keeps giggling -- still.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Something's odd -- within -- That person that I was -- And this One -- do not feel the same -- Could it be Madness -- this?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d411\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Color of the Grave is Green -- The Outer Grave -- I mean -- You would not know it from the Field -- Except it own a Stone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo help the fond -- to find it -- Too infinite asleep To stop and tell them where it is -- But just a Daisy -- deep --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Color of the Grave is white -- The outer Grave -- I mean -- You would not know it from the Drifts -- In Winter -- till the Sun -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHas furrowed out the Aisles -- Then -- higher than the Land The little Dwelling Houses rise Where each -- has left a friend --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Color of the Grave within -- The Duplicate -- I mean -- Not all the Snows could make it white -- Not all the Summers -- Green --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou've seen the Color -- maybe -- Upon a Bonnet bound -- When that you met it with before -- The Ferret -- cannot find --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d412\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI read my sentence -- steadily -- Reviewed it with my eyes, To see that I made no mistake In its extremest clause - The Date, and manner, of the shame -- And then the Pious Form That "God have mercy" on the Soul The Jury voted Him -- I made my soul familiar -- with her extremity -- That at the last, it should not be a novel Agony -- But she, and Death, acquainted - Meet tranquilly, as friends -- Salute, and pass, without a Hint -- And there, the Matter ends --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d413\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI never felt at Home -- Below --- And in the Handsome Skies I shall not feel at Home -- I know -- I don't like Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause it's Sunday -- all the time -- And Recess -- never comes -- And Eden'll be so lonesome Bright Wednesday Afternoons --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf God could make a visit -- Or ever took a Nap -- So not to see us -- but they say Himself -- a Telescope\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerennial beholds us - Myself would run away From Him -- and Holy Ghost -- and All -- But there's the "Judgement Day"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d414\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas like a Maelstrom, with a notch, That nearer, every Day, Kept narrowing its boiling Wheel Until the Agony\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToyed coolly with the final inch Of your delirious Hem -- And you dropt, lost, When something broke -And let you from a Dream --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs if a Goblin with a Gauge -- Kept measuring the Hours -- Until you felt your Second Weigh, helpless, in his Paws --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd not a Sinew -- stirred -- could help, And sense was setting numb -- When God -- remembered -- and the Fiend Let go, then, Overcome --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs if your Sentence stood -- pronounced -- And you were frozen led From Dungeon's luxury of Doubt To Gibbets, and the Dead --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when the Film had stitched your eyes A Creature gasped "Reprieve"! Which Anguish was the utterest -- then -- To perish, or to live?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d415\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSunset at Night -- is natural -- But Sunset on the Dawn Reverses Nature -- Master -- So Midnight's -- due -- at Noon.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEclipses be -- predicted -- And Science bows them in -- But do one face us suddenly -- Jehovah's Watch -- is wrong.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d416\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Murmur in the Trees -- to note -- Not loud enough -- for Wind -- A Star -- not far enough to seek -- Nor near enough -- to find --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA long -- long Yellow -- on the Lawn -- A Hubbub -- as of feet - Not audible -- as Ours -- to Us -- But dapperer -- More Sweet --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Hurrying Home of little Men To Houses unperceived -- All this -- and more -- if I should tell -Would never be believed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Robins in the Trundle bed How many I espy Whose Nightgowns could not hide the Wings -- Although I heard them try --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut then I promised ne'er to tell -- How could I break My Word? So go your Way -- and I'll go Mine -- No fear you'll miss the Road.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d417\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs it dead -- Find it -- Out of sound -- Out of sight -- "Happy"? Which is wiser -- You, or the Wind? "Conscious"? Won't you ask that -- Of the low Ground?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Homesick"? Many met it -- Even through them -- This Cannot testify -- Themself -- as dumb -- Not in this World to see his face -Sounds long -- until I read the place Where this -- is said to be But just the Primer -- to a life -- Unopened -- rare -- Upon the Shelf -- Clasped yet -- to Him -- and Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd yet -- My Primer suits me so I would not choose -- a Book to know Than that -- be sweeter wise -- Might some one else -- so learned -- be -- And leave me -- just my A -- B -- C -Himself -- could have the Skies --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d419\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe grow accustomed to the Dark -- When light is put away -- As when the Neighbor holds the Lamp To witness her Goodbye --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Moment -- We uncertain step For newness of the night -- Then -- fit our Vision to the Dark -- And meet the Road -- erect --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so of larger -- Darkness -- Those Evenings of the Brain -- When not a Moon disclose a sign -Or Star -- come out -- within --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Bravest -- grope a little -- And sometimes hit a Tree Directly in the Forehead -- But as they learn to see --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEither the Darkness alters -- Or something in the sight Adjusts itself to Midnight -- And Life steps almost straight. You'll know it -- as you know 'tis Noon -- By Glory - As you do the Sun -- By Glory - As you will in Heaven -- Know God the Father -- and the Son.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy intuition, Mightiest Things Assert themselves -- and not by terms -- "I'm Midnight" -- need the Midnight say -- "I'm Sunrise" -- Need the Majesty?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOmnipotence -- had not a Tongue -- His listp -- is Lightning -- and the Sun -- His Conversation -- with the Sea -- "How shall you know"? Consult your Eye!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d421\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Charm invests a face Imperfectly beheld -- The Lady date not lift her Veil For fear it be dispelled --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut peers beyond her mesh -- And wishes -- and denies -- Lest Interview -- annul a want That Image -- satisfies -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d422\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMore Life -- went out -- when He went Than Ordinary Breath -- Lit with a finer Phosphor -- Requiring in the Quench --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Power of Renowned Cold, The Climate of the Grave A Temperature just adequate So Anthracite, to live --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor some -- an Ampler Zero -- A Frost more needle keen Is necessary, to reduce The Ethiop within.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOthers -- extinguish easier -- A Gnat's minutest Fan Sufficient to obliterate A Tract of Citizen --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhose Peat lift -- amply vivid -- Ignores the solemn News That Popocatapel exists -- Or Etna's Scarlets, Choose --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d423\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Months have ends -- the Years -- a knot -- No Power can untie To stretch a little further A Skein of Misery --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Earth lays back these tired lives In her mysterious Drawers -- Too tenderly, that any doubt An ultimate Repose --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe manner of the Children -- Who weary of the Day -- Themself -- the noisy Plaything They cannot put away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d424\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRemoved from Accident of Loss By Accident of Gain Befalling not my simple Days -- Myself had just to earn - Of Riches -- as unconscious As is the Brown Malay Of Pearls in Eastern Waters, Marked His -- What Holiday Would stir his slow conception -- Had he the power to dream That put the Dower's fraction -- Awaited even -- Him --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d425\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGood Morning -- Midnight -- I'm coming Home -- Day -- got tired of Me -- How could I -- of Him?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSunshine was a sweet place -- I liked to stay -- But Morn -- didn't want me -- now -- So -- Goodnight -- Day!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI can look -- can't I -- When the East is Red? The Hills -- have a way -- then -- That puts the Heart -- abroad --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou -- are not so fair -- Midnight -- I chose -- Day -- But -- please take a little Girl -- He turned away!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d426\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt don't sound so terrible -- quite -- as it did -- I run it over -- "Dead", Brain, "Dead." Put it in Latin -- left of my school -- Seems it don't shriek so -- under rule.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTurn it, a little -- full in the face A Trouble looks bitterest -- Shift it -- just -- Say "When Tomorrow comes this way -- I shall have waded down one Day."\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI suppose it will interrupt me some Till I get accustomed -- but then the Tomb Like other new Things -- shows largest -- then -And smaller, by Habit --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's shrewder then Put the Thought in advance -- a Year -- How like "a fit" -- then -- Murder -- wear!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d427\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'll clutch -- and clutch - Next -- One -- Might be the golden touch -- Could take it -- Diamonds -- Wait -- I'm diving -- just a little late -- But stars -- go slow -- for night --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'll string you -- in fine Necklace -- Tiaras -- make -- of some -- Wear you on Hem -- Loop up a Countess -- with you -- Make -- a Diadem -- and mend my old One -- Count -- Hoard -- then lose -- And doubt that you are mine -- To have the joy of feeling it -- again --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'll show you at the Court -- Bear you -- for Ornament Where Women breathe -- That every sigh --}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
may lift you Just as high -- as I --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd -- when I die -- In meek array -- display you -- Still to show -- how rich I go -- Lest Skies impeach a wealth so wonderful -- And banish me -- Taking up the fair Ideal, Just to cast her down When a fracture -- we discover -- Or a splintered Crown -- Makes the Heavens portable -- And the Gods -- a lie - Doubtless -- "Adam" -- scowled at Eden -- For his perjury!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCherishing -- our pool Ideal -- Till in purer dress -- We behold her -- glorified -- Comforts -- search -- like this -- Till the broken creatures -- We adored -- for whole -- Stains -- all washed -- Transfigured -- mended -- Meet us -- with a smile -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d429\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Moon is distant from the Sea -- And yet, with Amber Hands -- She leads Him -- docile as a Boy -- Along appointed Sands --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe never misses a Degree -- Obedient to Her Eye He comes just so far -- toward the Town -- Just so far -- goes away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh, Signor, Thine, the Amber Hand -- And mine -- the distant Sea -- Obedient to the least command Thine eye impose on me -- It would never be Common -- more -- I said -- Difference -- had begun -- Many a bitterness -- had been -- But that old sort -- was done --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr -- if it sometime -- showed -- as 'twill -- Upon the Downiest -- Morn -- Such bliss -- had I -- for all the years -- 'Twould give an Easier -- pain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'd so much joy -- I told it -- Red -- Upon my simple Cheek -- I felt it publish -- in my Eye -- 'Twas needless -- any speak --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI walked -- as wings -- my body bore -- The feet -- I former used -- Unnecessary -- now to me -- As boots -- would be -- to Birds --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI put my pleasure all abroad -- I dealth a word of Gold To every Creature -- that I met -- And Dowered -- all the World --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen -- suddenly -- my Riches shrank -- A Goblin -- drank my Dew -- My Palaces -- dropped tenantless -Myself -- was beggared -- too --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI clutched at sounds -- I groped at shapes -- I touched the tops of Films -- I felt the Wilderness roll back Along my Golden lines --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sackcloth -- hangs upon the nail -- The Frock I used to wear -- But where my moment of Brocade -- My -- drop -- of India? Me -- come! My dazzled face In such a shining place! Me -- hear! My foreign Ear The sounds of Welcome -- there!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Saints forget Our bashful feet --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Holiday, shall be That They -- remember me -- My Paradise -- the fame That They -- pronounce my name --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d432\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDo People moulder equally, They bury, in the Grave? I do believe a Species As positively live\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs I, who testify it Deny that I -- am dead -- And fill my Lungs, for Witness -- From Tanks -- above my Head --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI say to you, said Jesus -- That there be standing here -- A Sort, that shall not taste of Death -- If Jesus was sincere --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI need no further Argue -- That statement of the Lord Is not a controvertible -- He told me, Death was dead --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d433 Knows how to forget! But could It teach it? Easiest of Arts, they say When one learn how\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDull Hearts have died In the Acquisition Sacrificed for Science Is common, though, now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI went to School But was not wiser Globe did not teach it Nor Logarithm Show\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"How to forget"! Say -- some -- Philosopher! Ah, to be erudite Enough to know!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs it in a Book? So, I could buy it -- Is it like a Planet? Telescopes would know --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf it be invention It must have a Patent. Rabbi of the Wise Book Don't you know?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d434\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo love thee Year by Year -- May less appear Than sacrifice, and cease -- However, dear, Forever might be short, I thought to show -- And so I pieced it, with a flower, now.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d435\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMuch Madness is divinest Sense -To a discerning Eye -- Much Sense -- the starkest Madness -- 'Tis the Majority In this, as All, prevail -- Assent -- and you are sane -- Demur -- you're straightway dangerous -- And handled with a Chain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d436\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wind -- tapped like a tired Man -- And like a Host -- "Come in" I boldly answered -- entered then My Residence within\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Rapid -- footless Guest -- To offer whom a Chair Were as impossible as hand A Sofa to the Air --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Bone had He to bind Him -- His Speech was like the Push Of numerous Humming Birds at once From a superior Bush --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Countenance -- a Billow -- His Fingers, as He passed Let go a music -- as of tunes Blown tremulous in Glass --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe visited -- still flitting -- Then like a timid Man Again, He tapped -- 'twas flurriedly -And I became alone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d437\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPrayer is the little implement Through which Men reach Where Presence -- is denied them. They fling their Speech By means of it -- in God's Ear -- If then He hear -- This sums the Apparatus Comprised in Prayer --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d438\u13\'0d\u13\'0dForget! The lady with the Amulet Forget she wore it at her Heart Because she breathed against Was Treason twixt?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeny! Did Rose her Bee -- For Privilege of Play Or Wile of Butterfly Or Opportunity -- Her Lord away?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe lady with the Amulet -- will face -- The Bee -- in Mausoleum laid -- Discard his Bride -- But longer than the little Rill -- That cooled the Forehead of the Hill -- While Other -- went the Sea to fill -And Other -- went to turn the Mill -- I'll do thy Will --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d439\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUndue Significance a starving man attaches To Food -- Far off -- He sighs -- and therefore -- Hopeless -And therefore -- Good --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPartaken -- it relieves -- indeed -- But proves us That Spices fly In the Receipt -- It was the Distance -- Was Savory -- 440\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis customary as we part A trinket -- to confer -- It helps to stimulate the faith When Lovers be afar -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis various -- as the various taste -Clematis -- journeying far -- Presents me with a single Curl Of her Electric Hair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d441\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis is my letter to the World That never wrote to Me -- The simple News that Nature told -With tender Majesty\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Message is committed To Hands I cannot see - For love of Her -- Sweet -- countrymen -- Judge tenderly -- of Me\u13\'0d\u13\'0d442\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGod made a little Gentian -- It tried -- to be a Rose -- And failed -- and all the Summer laughed -- But just before the Snows\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere rose a Purple Creature -- That ravished all the Hill -- And Summer hid her Forehead -- And Mockery -- was still --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Frosts were her condition -- The Tyrian would not come Until the North -- invoke it -- Creator -- Shall I -- bloom?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d443\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI tie my Hat -- I crease my Shawl -- Life's little duties do -- precisely -- As the very least Were infinite -- to me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI put new Blossoms in the Glass - And throw the old -- away -- I push a petal from my gown That anchored there -- I weigh The time 'twill be till six o'clock I have so much to do - And yet -- Existence -- some way back -- Stopped -- struck -- my tickling -- through -- We cannot put Ourself away As a completed Man Or Woman -- When the Errand's done We came to Flesh -- upon -- There may be -- Miles on Miles of Nought -- Of Action -- sicker far - To simulate -- is stinging work -- To cover what we are From Science -- and from Surgery -- Too Telescopic Eyes To bear on us unshaded -- For their -- sake -- not for Ours -- 'Twould start them -- We -- could tremble -- But since we got a Bomb -- And held it in our Bosom -- Nay -- Hold it -- it is calm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTherefore -- we do life's labor -- Though life's Reward -- be done -- With scrupulous exactness -- To hold our Senses -- on -- It feels a shame to be Alive -- When Men so brave -- are dead -- One envies the Distinguished Dust -Permitted -- such a Head --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Stone -- that tells defending Whom This Spartan put away What little of Him we -- possessed In Pawn for Liberty --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe price is great -- Sublimely paid -- Do we deserve -- a Thing -- That lives -- like Dollars -- must be piled Before we may obtain?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAre we that wait -- sufficient worth -- That such Enormous Pearl As life -- dissolved be -- for Us -- In Battle's -- horrid Bowl?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt may be -- a Renown to live -- I think the Man who die -- Those unsustained -- Saviors -- Present Divinity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d445\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas just this time, last year, I died. I know I heard the Corn, When I was carried by the Farms -- It had the Tassels on --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI thought how yellow it would look -When Richard went to mill -- And then, I wanted to get out, But something held my will.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI thought just how Red -- Apples wedged The Stubble's joints between -- And the Carts stooping round the fields To take the Pumpkins in -- I wondered which would miss me, least, And when Thanksgiving, came, If Father'd multiply the plates -- To make an even Sum --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd would it blur the Christmas glee My Stocking hang too high For any Santa Claus to reach The Altitude of me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut this sort, grieved myself, And so, I thought the other way, How just this time, some perfect year -- Themself, should come to me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d446\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI showed her Heights she never saw -- "Would'st Climb," I said? She said -- "Not so" -- "With me --" I said -- With me? I showed her Secrets -- Morning's Nest -- The Rope the Nights were put across -- And now -- "Would'st have me for a Guest?" She could not find her Yes -- And then, I brake my life -- And Lo, A Light, for her, did solemn glow, The larger, as her face withdrew -- And could she, further, "No"?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d447\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould -- I do more -- for Thee -- Wert Thou a Bumble Bee -- Since for the Queen, have I -- Nought but Bouquet? This was a Poet -- It is That Distills amazing sense From ordinary Meanings -- And Attar so immense\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrom the familiar species That perished by the Door -- We wonder it was not Ourselves Arrested it -- before --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Pictures, the Discloser -- The Poet -- it is He -- Entitles Us -- by Contrast -- To ceaseless Poverty --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf portion -- so unconscious -- The Robbing -- could not harm -- Himself -- to Him -- a Fortune -- Exterior -- to Time --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d449\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI died for Beauty -- but was scarce Adjusted in the Tomb When One who died for Truth, was lain In an adjoining room --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe questioned softly "Why I failed"? "For Beauty", I replied - "And I -- for Truth -- Themself are One -- We Brethren, are", He said --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so, as Kinsmen, met a Night -- We talked between the Rooms -- Until the Moss had reached our lips}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
-- And covered up -- our names --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d450\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDreams -- are well -- but Waking's better, If One wake at morn -- If One wake at Midnight -- better -- Dreaming -- of the Dawn -- Sweeter -- the Surmising Robins -- Never gladdened Tree -- Than a Solid Dawn -- confronting -Leading to no Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d451\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Outer -- from the Inner Derives its Magnitude -- 'Tis Duke, or Dwarf, according As is the Central Mood --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe fine -- unvarying Axis That regulates the Wheel -- Though Spokes -- spin -- more conspicuous And fling a dust -- the while.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Inner -- paints the Outer -- The Brush without the Hand -- Its Picture publishes -- precise -- As is the inner Brand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn fine -- Arterial Canvas -- A Cheek -- perchance a Brow -- The Star's whole Secret -- in the Lake -- Eyes were not meant to know.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d452\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Malay -- took the Pearl -- Not -- I -- the Earl -- I -- feared the Sea -- too much Unsanctified -- to touch -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPraying that I might be Worthy -- the Destiny -- The Swarthy fellow swam -- And bore my Jewel -- Home -- Home to the Hut! What lot Had I -- the Jewel -- got -- Borne on a Dusky Breasty -- I had not deemed a Vest Of Amber -- fit --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Negro never knew I -- wooed it -- too -- To gain, or be undone -- Alike to Him -- One --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d453\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLove -- thou art high -- I cannot climb thee -- But, were it Two -- Who know but we -- Taking turns -- at the Chimborazo -- Ducal -- at last -- stand up by thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLove -- thou are deep -- I cannot cross thee -- But, were there Two Instead of One -- Rower, and Yacht -- some sovereign Summer -- Who knows -- but we'd reach the Sun?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLove -- thou are Veiled - A few -- behold thee -- Smile -- and alter -- and prattle -- and die -- Bliss -- were an Oddity -- without thee -- Nicknamed by God -- Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d454\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt was given to me by the Gods -- When I was a little Girl - They given us Presents most -- you know -- When we are new -- and small. I kept it in my Hand -- I never put it down -- I did not dare to eat -- or sleep -- For fear it would be gone -- I heard such words as "Rich" -- When hurrying to school -- From lips at Corners of the Streets -- And wrestled with a smile. Rich! 'Twas Myself -- was rich -- To take the name of Gold -- And Gold to own -- in solid Bars -- The Difference -- made me bold --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d455\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTriumph -- may be of several kinds -- There's Triumph in the Room When that Old Imperator -- Death -- By Faith\u13\'0d\u13\'0d456\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo well that I can live without -- I love thee -- then How well is that? As well as Jesus? Prove it me That He -- loved Men -- As I -- love thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d457\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSweet -- safe -- Houses -- Glad -- gay -- Houses -- Sealed so stately tight -- Lids of Steel -- on Lids of Marble -- Locking Bare feet out -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBrooks of Plush -- in Banks of Satin Not so softly fall As the laughter -- and the whisper -- From their People Pearl --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Bald Death -- affront their Parlors -- No Bold Sickness come To deface their Stately Treasures -Anguish -- and the Tomb --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHum by -- in Muffled Coaches -- Lest they -- wonder Why -- Any -- for the Press of Smiling -- Interrupt -- to die --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d458\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike eyes that looked on Wastes -- Incredulous of Ought But Blank -- and steady Wilderness -Diversified by Night --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJust Infinites of Nought -- As far as it could see -- So looked the face I looked upon -- So looked itself -- on Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI offered it no Help -- Because the Cause was Mine -- The Misery a Compact As hopeless -- as divine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNeither -- would be absolved -- Neither would be a Queen Without the Other -- Therefore -- We perish -- tho' We reign --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d459\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Tooth upon Our Peace The Peace cannot deface -- Then Wherefore be the Tooth? To vitalize the Grace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heaven hath a Hell -- Itself to signalize -- And every sign before the Place Is Gilt with Sacrifice --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d460\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI know where Wells grow -- Droughtless Wells -Deep dug -- for Summer days -- Where Mosses go no more away -- And Pebble -- safely plays --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's made of Fathoms -- and a Belt -- A Belt of jagged Stone -- Inlaid with Emerald -- half way down -- And Diamonds -- jumbled on --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt has no Bucket -- Were I rich A Bucket I would buy -- I'm often thirsty -- but my lips Are so high up -- You see --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI read in an Old fashioned Book That People "thirst no more" -- The Wells have Buckets to them there -- It must mean that -- I'm sure --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShall We remember Parching -- then? Those Waters sound so grand -- I think a little Well -- like Mine -- Dearer to understand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d461\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Wife -- at daybreak I shall be -- Sunrise -- Hast thou a Flag for me? At Midnight, I am but a Maid, How short it takes to make a Bride -Then -- Midnight, I have passed from thee Unto the East, and Victory -- Midnight -- Good Night! I hear them call, The Angels bustle in the Hall -- Softly my Future climbs the Stair, I fumble at my Childhood's prayer So soon to be a Child no more -- Eternity, I'm coming -- Sire, Savior -- I've seen the face -- before!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d462\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhy make it doubt -- it hurts it so -- So sick -- to guess -- So strong -- to know -- So brave -- upon its little Bed To tell the very last They said Unto Itself -- and smile -- And shake -- For that dear -- distant -- dangerous -- Sake -- But -- the Instead -- the Pinching fear That Something -- it did do -- or dare -- Offend the Vision -- and it flee -- And They no more remember me -- Nor ever turn to tell me why -- Oh, Master, This is Misery --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d463\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI live with Him -- I see His face -- I go no more away For Visitor -- or Sundown -- Death's single privacy\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Only One -- forestalling Mine -And that -- by Right that He Presents a Claim invisible -- No wedlock -- granted Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI live with Him -- I hear His Voice -I stand alive -- Today -- To witness to the Certainty Of Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTaught Me -- by Time -- the lower Way -- Conviction -- Every day -- That Life like This -- is stopless -- Be Judgment -- what it may --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d464\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe power to be true to You, Until upon my face The Judgment push his Picture -- Presumptuous of Your Place --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf This -- Could Man deprive Me -- Himself -- the Heaven excel -- Whose invitation -- Yours reduced Until it showed too small --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d465\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI heard a Fly buzz -- when I died -- The Stillness in the Room Was like the Stillness in the Air -- Between the Heaves of Storm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Eyes around -- had wrung them dry -- And Breaths were gathering firm For that last Onset -- when the King Be witnessed -- in the Room --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI willed my Keepsakes -- Signed away What portion of me be Assignable -- and then it was There interposed a Fly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith Blue -- uncertain stumbling Buzz -- Between the light -- and me -- And then the Windows failed -- and then I could not see to see - 466\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis little I -- could care for Pearls -- Who own the ample sea -- Or Brooches -- when the Emperor -- With Rubies -- pelteth me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr Gold -- who am the Prince of Mines -- Or Diamonds -- when have I A Diadem to fit a Dom -- Continual upon me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d467\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe do not play on Graves -- Because there isn't Room -- Besides -- it isn't even -- it slants And People come --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd put a Flower on it -- And hang their faces so -- We're fearing that their Hearts will drop -- And crush our pretty play --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so we move as far As Enemies -- away -- Just looking round to see how far It is -- Occasionally --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d468\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Manner of its Death When Certain it must die -- 'Tis deemed a privilege to choose -'Twas Major Andre's Way --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Choice of Life -- is past -- There yet remains a Love Its little Fate to stipulate -- How small in those who live --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Miracle to tease With Bable of the styles -- How "they are Dying mostly -- now" -- And Customs at "St. James"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d469\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Red -- Blaze -- is the Morning -- The Violet -- is Noon -- The Yellow -- Day -- is falling -- And after that -- is none --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut Miles of Sparks -- at Evening -- Reveal the Width that burned -- The Territory Argent -- that Never yet -- consumed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d470\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI am alive -- I guess -- The Branches on my Hand Are full of Morning Glory -- And at my finger's end -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Carmine -- tingles warm -- And if I hold a Glass Across my Mouth -- it blurs it -- Physician's -- proof of Breath --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI am alive -- because I am not in a Room -- The Parlor -- Commonly -- it is -- So Visitors may come -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd lean -- and view it sidewise -- And add "How cold -- it grew" -- And "Was it conscious -- when it stepped In Immortality?" I am alive -- because I do not own a House -- Entitled to myself -- precise -- And fitting no one else -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd marked my Girlhood's name -- So Visitors may know Which Door is mine -- and not\u13\'0d\u13\'0d471\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Night -- there lay the Days between -- The Day that was Before -- And Day that was Behind -- were one -- And now -- 'twas Night -- was here --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSlow -- Night -- that must be watched away -- As Grains upon a shore -- Too imperceptible to note -- Till it be night -- no more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d472\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExcept the Heaven had come so near -- So seemed to choose My Door -- The Distance would not haunt me so -- I had not hoped -- before --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut just to hear the Grace depart -- I never thought to see - Afflicts me with a Double loss -- 'Tis lost -- and lost to me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d473\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI am ashamed -- I hide - What right have I -- to be a Bride -- So late a Dowerless Girl -- Nowhere to hide my dazzled Face -No one to teach me that new Grace -- Nor introduce -- my Soul --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMe to adorn -- How -- tell -- Trinket -- to make Me beautiful -- Fabrics of Cashmere -- Never a Gown of Dun -- more -- Raiment instead -- of Pompadour -- For Me -- My soul -- to wear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFingers -- to frame my Round Hair Oval -- as Feudal Ladies wore -- Far Fashions -- Fair -- Skill to hold my Brow like an Earl -- Plead -- like a Whippoorwill -- Prove -- like a Pearl -- Then, for Character -- Fashion My Spirit quaint -- white -- Quick -- like a Liquor -- Gay -- like Light -- Bring Me my best Pride -- No more ashamed -- No more to hide -- Meek -- let it be -- too proud -- for Pride -- Baptized -- this Day -- a Bride --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d474\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey put Us far apart -- As separate as Sea And Her unsown Peninsula --}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
We signified "These see" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey took away our Eyes -- They thwarted Us with Guns -- "I see Thee" each responded straight Through Telegraphic Signs --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith Dungeons -- They devised -- But through their thickest skill -- And their opaquest Adamant -- Our Souls saw -- just as well --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey summoned Us to die -- With sweet alacrity We stood upon our stapled feet -- Condemned -- but just -- to see --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPermission to recant -- Permission to forget -- We turned our backs upon the Sun For perjury of that --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot Either -- noticed Death -- Of Paradise -- aware -- Each other's Face -- was all the Disc Each other's setting -- saw --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d475\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDoom is the House without the Door -- 'Tis entered from the Sun -- And then the Ladder's thrown away, Because Escape -- is done --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis varied by the Dream Of what they do outside -- Where Squirrels play -- and Berries die -- And Hemlocks -- bow -- to God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d476\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI meant to have but modest needs -Such as Content -- and Heaven -- Within my income -- these could lie And Life and I -- keep even --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut since the last -- included both -- It would suffice my Prayer But just for One -- to stipulate -- And Grace would grant the Pair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so -- upon this wise -- I prayed -- Great Spirit -- Give to me A Heaven not so large as Yours, But large enough -- for me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Smile suffused Jehovah's face -The Cherubim -- withdrew -- Grave Saints stole out to look at me -- And showed their dimples -- too --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI left the Place, with all my might -- I threw my Prayer away -- The Quiet Ages picked it up -- And Judgment -- twinkled -- too -- Tat one so honest -- be extant -- It take the Tale for true - That "Whatsoever Ye shall ask -- Itself be given You" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut I, grown shrewder -- scan the Skies With a suspicious Air - As Children -- swindled for the first All Swindlers -- be -- infer --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d477\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Man can compass a Despair -- As round a Goalless Road No faster than a Mile at once The Traveller proceed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnconscious of the Width -- Unconscious that the Sun Be setting on His progress -- So accurate the One\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt estimating Pain -- Whose own -- has just begun -- His ignorance -- the Angel That pilot Him along --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d478 I had no time to Hate -- Because The Grave would hinder Me -- And Life was not so Ample I Could finish -- Enmity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor had I time to Love -- But since Some Industry must be -- The little Toil of Love -- I thought Be large enough for Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d479\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe dealt her pretty words like Blades -- How glittering they shone -- And every One unbared a Nerve Or wantoned with a Bone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe never deemed -- she hurt -- That -- is not Steel's Affair -- A vulgar grimace in the Flesh -- How ill the Creatures bear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo Ache is human -- not polite -- The Film upon the eye Mortality's old Custom -- Just locking up -- to Die.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d480\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Why do I love" You, Sir? Because - The Wind does not require the Grass To answer -- Wherefore when He pass She cannot keep Her place.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause He knows -- and Do not You -- And We know not -- Enough for Us The Wisdom it be so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lightning -- never asked an Eye Wherefore it shut -- when He was by -- Because He knows it cannot speak -And reasons not contained -- -- Of Talk -- There be -- preferred by Daintier Folk --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sunrise -- Sire -- compelleth Me -- Because He's Sunrise -- and I see -Therefore -- Then -- I love Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d481\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Himmaleh was known to stoop Unto the Daisy low -- Transported with Compassion That such a Doll should grow Where Tent by Tent -- Her Universe Hung out its Flags of Snow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d482\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe Cover Thee -- Sweet Face -- Not that We tire of Thee -- But that Thyself fatigue of Us -- Remember -- as Thou go -- We follow Thee until Thou notice Us -- no more -- And then -- reluctant -- turn away To Con Thee o'er and o'er --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd blame the scanty love We were Content to show -- Augmented -- Sweet -- a Hundred fold -- If Thou would'st take it -- now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d483\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Solemn thing within the Soul To feel itself get ripe -- And golden hang -- while farther up -- The Maker's Ladders stop -- And in the Orchard far below -- You hear a Being -- drop --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Wonderful -- to feel the Sun Still toiling at the Cheek You thought was finished -- Cool of eye, and critical of Work -- He shifts the stem -- a little -- To give your Core -- a look --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut solemnest -- to know Your chance in Harvest moves A little nearer -- Every Sun The Single -- to some lives.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d484\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Garden -- like the Beach -- Denotes there be -- a Sea -- That's Summer -- Such as These -- the Pearls She fetches -- such as Me\u13\'0d\u13\'0d485\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo make One's Toilette -- after Death Has made the Toilette cool Of only Taste we cared to please Is difficult, and still --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat's easier -- than Braid the Hair -- And make the Bodice gay -- When eyes that fondled it are wrenched By Decalogues -- away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d486\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI was the slightest in the House -- I took the smallest Room -- At night, my little Lamp, and Book -- And one Geranium --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo stationed I could catch the Mint That never ceased to fall -- And just my Basket -- Let me think -- I'm sure -- That this was all --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI never spoke -- unless addressed -And then, 'twas brief and low -- I could not bear to live -- aloud -- The Racket shamed me so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd if it had not been so far -- And any one I knew Were going -- I had often thought How noteless -- I could die --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d487\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou love the Lord -- you cannot see -You write Him -- every day -- A little note -- when you awake -- And further in the Day.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn Ample Letter -- How you miss -- And would delight to see -- But then His House -- is but a Step -- And Mine's -- in Heaven -- You see. 488\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMyself was formed -- a Carpenter -- An unpretending time My Plane -- and I, together wrought Before a Builder came --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo measure our attainments -- Had we the Art of Boards Sufficiently developed -- He'd hire us At Halves -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Tools took Human -- Faces -- The Bench, where we had toiled -- Against the Man -- persuaded -- We -- Temples build -- I said --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d489\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe pray -- to Heaven -- We prate -- of Heaven -- Relate -- when Neighbors die -- At what o'clock to heaven -- they fled -- Who saw them -- Wherefore fly?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs Heaven a Place -- a Sky -- a Tree? Location's narrow way is for Ourselves -- Unto the Dead There's no Geography --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut State -- Endowal -- Focus -- Where -- Omnipresence -- fly? 490\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo One denied the drink To tell what Water is Would be acuter, would it not Than letting Him surmise? To lead Him to the Well And let Him hear it drip Remind Him, would it not, somewhat Of His condemned lip?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d491\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhile it is alive Until Death touches it While it and I lap one Air Dwell in one Blood Under one Sacrament Show me Division can split or pare -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLove is like Life -- merely longer Love is like Death, during the Grave Love is the Fellow of the Resurrection Scooping up the Dust and chanting "Live"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d492\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCivilization -- spurns -- the Leopard! Was the Leopard -- bold? Deserts -- never rebuked her Satin -- Ethiop -- her Gold -- Tawny -- her Customs -- She was Conscious -- Spotted -- her Dun Gown -- This was the Leopard's nature -- Signor -- Need -- a keeper -- frown?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPity -- the Pard -- that left her Asia -Memories -- of Palm -- Cannot be stifled -- with Narcotic -- Nor suppressed -- with Balm -- The World -- stands -- solemner -- to me -- Since I was wed -- to Him -- A modesty befits the soul That bears another's -- name -- A doubt -- if it be fair -- indeed -- To wear that perfect -- pearl -- The Man -- upon the Woman -- binds -- To clasp her soul -- for all -- A prayer, that it more angel -- prove -- A whiter Gift -- within -- To that munificence, that chose -- So unadorned -- a Queen -- A Gratitude -- that such be true -- It had esteemed the Dream -- Too beautiful -- for Shape to prove -- Or posture -- to redeem!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d494\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGoing to Him! Happy letter! Tell Him -- Tell Him the page I didn't write -- Tell Him -- I only said the Syntax -- And left the Verb and the pronoun out -- Tell Him just how the fingers hurried -- Then -- how they waded -- slow -- slow -- And then you wished you had eyes in your pages -- So you could see what moved them so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTell Him -- it wasn't a Practised Writer -- You guessed -- from the way the sentence toiled -- You could hear the Bodice tug, behind you -- As if it held but the might of a child - You almost pitied it -- you -- it worked so -- Tell Him -- no -- you may quibble there -- For it would split His Heart, to know it -- And then you and I, were silenter.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTell Him -- Night finished -- before we finished -- And the Old Clock kept neighing "Day"! And you -- got sleepy -- and begged to be ended -- What could it hinder so -- to say? Tell Him -- just how she sealed you -- Cautious! But -- if He ask where you are hid Until tomorrow -- Happy letter! Gesture Coquette -- and shake your Head!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d495\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's thoughts -- and just One Heart -- And Old Sunshine -- about -- Make frugal -- Ones -- Content -- And two or three -- for Company -- Upon a Holiday -- Crowded -- as Sacrament --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBooks -- when the Unit -- Spare the Tenant -- long eno' -- A Picture -- if it Care -- Itself -- a Gallery too rare -- For needing more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFlowers -- to keep the Eyes -- from going awkward -- When it snows -- A Bird -- if they -- prefer -- Though Winter fire -- sing clear as Plover -- To our -- ear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Landscape -- not so great To suffocate the Eye -- A Hill -- perhaps -- Perhaps -- the profile of a Mill Turned by the Wind -- Tho' such -- are luxuries --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's thoughts -- and just two Heart -- And Heaven -- about -- At least -- a Counterfeit -- We would not have Correct -- And Immortality -- can be almost -- Not quite -- Content -- As far from pity, as complaint -- As cool to speech -- as stone -- As numb to Revelation As if my Trade were Bone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs far from time -- as History -- As near yourself -- Today -- As Children, to the Rainbow's scarf -Or Sunset's Yellow play\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo eyelids in the Sepulchre -- How dumb the Dancer lies -- While Color's Revelations break -- And blaze}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
-- the Butterflies!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d497\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe strained my faith -- Did he find it supple? Shook my strong trust -Did it then -- yield?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHurled my belief -- But -- did he shatter -- it? Racked -- with suspense -- Not a nerve failed!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWrung me -- with Anguish -- But I never doubted him -- 'Tho' for what wrong He did never say --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStabbed -- while I sued His sweet forgiveness -- Jesus -- it's your little "John"! Don't you know -- me? I envy Seas, whereon He rides -- I envy Spokes of Wheels Of Chariots, that Him convey -- I envy Crooked Hills\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat gaze upon His journey -- How easy All can see What is forbidden utterly As Heaven -- unto me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI envy Nests of Sparrows -- That dot His distant Eaves -- The wealthy Fly, upon His Pane -- The happy -- happy Leaves --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat just abroad His Window Have Summer's leave to play -- The Ear Rings of Pizarro Could not obtain for me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI envy Light -- that wakes Him -- And Bells -- that boldly ring To tell Him it is Noon, abroad -- Myself -- be Noon to Him --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYet interdict -- my Blossom -- And abrogate -- my Bee -- Lest Noon in Everlasting Night -- Drop Gabriel -- and Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d499\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThose fair -- fictitious People -- The Women -- plucked away From our familiar Lifetime -- The Men of Ivory --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThose Boys and Girls, in Canvas -- Who stay upon the Wall In Everlasting Keepsake -- Can Anybody tell? We trust -- in places perfecter -- Inheriting Delight Beyond our faint Conjecture -- Our dizzy Estimate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRemembering ourselves, we trust -Yet Blesseder -- than We -- Through Knowing -- where We only hope -- Receiving -- where we -- pray --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Expectation -- also - Anticipating us With transport, that would be a pain Except for Holiness --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEsteeming us -- as Exile -- Themself -- admitted Home -- Through easy Miracle of Death -- The Way ourself, must come --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 500-599\u13\'0d\u13\'0d500\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithin my Garden, rides a Bird Upon a single Wheel -- Whose spokes a dizzy Music make As 'twere a travelling Mill --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe never stops, but slackens Above the Ripest Rose -Partakes without alighting And praises as he goes,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill every spice is tasted -- And then his Fairy Gig Reels in remoter atmospheres -- And I rejoin my Dog,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd He and I, perplex us If positive, 'twere we -- Or bore the Garden in the Brain This Curiosity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut He, the best Logician, Refers my clumsy eye -- To just vibrating Blossoms! An Exquisite Reply!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d501\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis World is not Conclusion. A Species stands beyond -- Invisible, as Music -- But positive, as Sound -- It beckons, and it baffles -- Philosophy -- don't know -- And through a Riddle, at the last -- Sagacity, must go -- To guess it, puzzles scholars -- To gain it, Men have borne Contempt of Generations And Crucifixion, shown - Faith slips -- and laughs, and rallies -- Blushes, if any see -- Plucks at a twig of Evidence -- And asks a Vane, the way -- Much Gesture, from the Pulpit -- Strong Hallelujahs roll - Narcotics cannot still the Tooth That nibbles at the soul -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d502\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt least -- to pray -- is left -- is left -Oh Jesus -- in the Air - I know not which thy chamber is -- I'm knocking -- everywhere --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThou settest Earthquake in the South -- And Maelstrom, in the Sea -- Say, Jesus Christ of Nazareth -- Hast thou no Arm for Me?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d503\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBetter -- than Music! For I -- who heard it -- I was used -- to the Birds -- before -This -- was different -- 'Twas Translation -- Of all tunes I knew -- and more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twasn't contained -- like other stanza -- No one could play it -- the second time -- But the Composer -- perfect Mozart -- Perish with him -- that Keyless Rhyme!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo -- Children -- told how Brooks in Eden -- Bubbled a better -- Melody -- Quaintly infer -- Eve's great surrender -- Urging the feet -- that would -- not -- fly -- Children -- matured -- are wiser -- mostly -- Eden -- a legend -- dimly told -- Eve -- and the Anguish -- Grandame's story -- But -- I was telling a tune -- I heard --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot such a strain -- the Church -- baptizes -- When the last Saint -- goes up the Aisles -- Not such a stanza splits the silence -- When the Redemption strikes her Bells --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet me not spill -- its smallest cadence -- Humming -- for promise -- when alone -- Humming -- until my faint Rehearsal -- Drop into tune -- around the Throne --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d504\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou know that Portrait in the Moon -- So tell me who 'tis like - The very Brow -- the stooping eyes -- A fog for -- Say -- Whose Sake?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe very Pattern of the Cheek -- It varies -- in the Chin -- But -- Ishmael -- since we met -- 'tis long -- And fashions -- intervene --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Moon's at full -- 'Tis Thou -- I say -- My lips just hold the name -- When crescent -- Thou art worn -- I note -- But -- there -- the Golden Same --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when -- Some Night -- Bold -- slashing Clouds Cut Thee away from Me -- That's easier -- than the other film That glazes Holiday --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d505 I would not paint -- a picture -- I'd rather be the One Its bright impossibility To dwell -- delicious -- on -- And wonder how the fingers feel Whose rare -- celestial -- stir -- Evokes so sweet a Torment -- Such sumptuous -- Despair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI would not talk, like Cornets -- I'd rather be the One Raised softly to the Ceilings -- And out, and easy on -- Through Villages of Ether -- Myself endued Balloon By but a lip of Metal -- The pier to my Pontoon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor would I be a Poet -- It's finer -- own the Ear -- Enamored -- impotent -- content -- The License to revere, A privilege so awful What would the Dower be, Had I the Art to stun myself With Bolts of Melody!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d506\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe touched me, so I live to know That such a day, permitted so, I groped upon his breast -- It was a boundless place to me And silenced, as the awful sea Puts minor streams to rest.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd now, I'm different from before, As if I breathed superior air -- Or brushed a Royal Gown -- My feet, too, that had wandered so -My Gypsy face -- transfigured now -- To tenderer Renown -- Into this Port, if I might come, Rebecca, to Jerusalem, Would not so ravished turn -- Nor Persian, baffled at her shrine Lift such a Crucifixial sign To her imperial Sun.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d507\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe sights a Bird -- she chuckles -She flattens -- then she crawls -- She runs without the look of feet -- Her eyes increase to Balls --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Jaws stir -- twitching -- hungry -- Her Teeth can hardly stand -- She leaps, but Robin leaped the first -- Ah, Pussy, of the Sand,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Hopes so juicy ripening -- You almost bather your Tongue -- When Bliss disclosed a hundred Toes -- And fled with every one --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d508\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'm ceded -- I've stopped being Theirs -- The name They dropped upon my face With water, in the country church Is finished using, now, And They can put it with my Dolls, My childhood, and the string of spools, I've finished threading -- too --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBaptized, before, without the choice, But this time, consciously, of Grace -- Unto supremest name -- Called to my Full -- The Crescent dropped -- Existence's whole Arc, filled up, With one small Diadem.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy second Rank -- too small the first -- Crowned -- Crowing -- on my Father's breast -- A half unconscious Queen -- But this time -- Adequate -- Erect, With Will to choose, or to reject, And I choose, just a Crown --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d509\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf anybody's friend be dead It's sharpest of the theme The thinking how they walked alive -At such and such a time --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir costume, of a Sunday, Some manner of the Hair -- A prank nobody knew but them Lost, in the Sepulchre --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow warm, they were, on such a day, You almost feel the date -- So short way off it seems -- And now -- they're Centuries from that --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow pleased they were, at what you said -- You try to touch the smile And dip your fingers in the frost -- When was it -- Can you tell --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou asked the Company to tea -- Acquaintance -- just a few -- And chatted close with this Grand Thing That don't remember you --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPast Bows, and Invitations -- Past Interview, and Vow -- Past what Ourself can estimate -- That -- makes the Quick of Woe!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d510 It was not Death, for I stood up, And all the Dead, lie down -- It was not Night, for all the Bells Put out their Tongues, for Noon.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt was not Frost, for on my Flesh I felt Siroccos -- crawl - Nor Fire -- for just my Marble feet Could keep a Chancel, cool --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd yet, it tasted, like them all, The Figures I have seen Set orderly, for Burial, Reminded me, of mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs if my life were shaven, And fitted to a frame, And could not breathe without a key, And 'twas like Midnight, some -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen everything that ticked -- has stopped -- And Space stares all around -- Or Grisly frosts -- first Autumn morns, Repeal the Beating Ground --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut, most, like Chaos - Stopless -- cool -- Without a Change, or Spar -- Or even a Report of Land -- To justify -- Despair.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d511\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf you were coming in the Fall, I'd brush the Summer by With half a smile, and half a spurn, As Housewives do, a Fly.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I could see you in a year, I'd wind the months in balls -- And put them each in separate Drawers, For fear the numbers fuse -- If only Centuries, delayed, I'd count them on my Hand, Subtracting, till my fingers dropped Into Van Dieman's Land.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf certain, when this life was out -- That yours and mine, should be I'd toss it yonder, like a Rind, And take Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut, now, uncertain of the length Of this, that is between, It goads me, like the Goblin Bee -- That will not state -- its sting.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d512\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Soul has Bandaged moments -- When too appalled to stir -- She feels some ghastly Fright come up And stop to look at her -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSalute her -- with long fingers -- Caress her freezing hair -- Sip, Goblin, from the very lips The Lover -- hovered -- o'er -- Unworthy, that a thought so mean Accost a Theme -- so -- fair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe soul has moments of Escape -When bursting all the doors -- She dances like a Bomb, abroad, And swings upon the Hours,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs do the Bee -- delirious borne -- Long Dungeoned from his Rose -- Touch Liberty -- then know no more, But Noon, and Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Soul's retaken moments -- When, Felon led along, With shackles on the plumed feet, And}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
staples, in the Song, The Horror welcomes her, again, These, are not brayed of Tongue --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d513\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike Flowers, that heard the news of Dews, But never deemed the dripping prize Awaited their -- low Brows -- Or Bees -- that thought the Summer's name Some rumor of Delirium, No Summer -- could -- for Them --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr Arctic Creatures, dimly stirred -- By Tropic Hint -- some Travelled Bird Imported to the Wood --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr Wind's bright signal to the Ear -- Making that homely, and severe, Contented, known, before --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heaven -- unexpected come, To Lives that thought the Worshipping A too presumptuous Psalm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d514\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer smile was shaped like other smiles -- The Dimples ran along - And still it hurt you, as some Bird Did hoist herself, to sing, Then recollect a Ball, she got -- And hold upon the Twig, Convulsive, while the Music broke -- Like Beads -- among the Bog -- No Crowd that has occurred Exhibit -- I suppose That General Attendance That Resurrection -- does --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCircumference be full - The long restricted Grave Assert her Vital Privilege -- The Dust -- connect -- and live --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn Atoms -- features place -- All Multitudes that were Efface in the Comparison -- As Suns -- dissolve a star --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSolemnity -- prevail -- Its Individual Doom Possess each separate Consciousness -- August -- Absorbed -- Numb --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat Duplicate -- exist -- What Parallel can be - Of the Significance of This -- To Universe -- and Me?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d516\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBeauty -- be not caused -- It Is -- Chase it, and it ceases - Chase it not, and it abides --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOvertake the Creases\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn the Meadow -- when the Wind Runs his fingers thro' it - Deity will see to it That You never do it -- He parts Himself -- like Leaves -- And then -- He closes up -- Then stands upon the Bonnet Of Any Buttercup --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then He runs against And oversets a Rose - And then does Nothing - Then away upon a Jib -- He goes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd dangles like a Mote Suspended in the Noon -- Uncertain -- to return Below -- Or settle in the Moon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat come of Him -- at Night -- The privilege to say Be limited by Ignorance -- What come of Him -- That Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Frost -- possess the World -- In Cabinets -- be shown -- A Sepulchre of quaintest Floss -- An Abbey -- a Cocoon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d518\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer sweet Weight on my Heart a Night Had scarcely deigned to lie -- When, stirring, for Belief's delight, My Bride had slipped away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf 'twas a Dream -- made solid -- just The Heaven to confirm -- Or if Myself were dreamed of Her -- The power to presume --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith Him remain -- who unto Me -- Gave -- even as to All - A Fiction superseding Faith -- By so much -- as 'twas real -- 519\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas warm -- at first -- like Us -- Until there crept upon A Chill -- like frost upon a Glass -- Till all the scene -- be gone.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Forehead copied Stone -- The Fingers grew too cold To ache -- and like a Skater's Brook -- The busy eyes -- congealed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt straightened -- that was all -- It crowded Cold to Cold -- It multiplied indifference -As Pride were all it could --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd even when with Cords -- 'Twas lowered, like a Weight -- It made no Signal, nor demurred, But dropped like Adamant.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d520\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI started Early -- Took my Dog -- And visited the Sea -- The Mermaids in the Basement Came out to look at me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Frigates -- in the Upper Floor Extended Hempen Hands -- Presuming Me to be a Mouse -- Aground -- upon the Sands --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut no Man moved Me -- till the Tide Went past my simple Shoe -- And past my Apron -- and my Belt -- And past my Bodice -- too --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd made as He would eat me up -- As wholly as a Dew Upon a Dandelion's Sleeve -- And then -- I started -- too --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd He -- He followed -- close behind -- I felt his Silver Heel Upon my Ankle -- Then my Shoes Would overflow with Pearl --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUntil We met the Solid Town -- No One He seemed to know -- And bowing -- with a Might look -- At me -- The Sea withdrew --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d521\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEndow the Living -- with the Tears -You squander on the Dead, And They were Men and Women -- now, Around Your Fireside -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dInstead of Passive Creatures, Denied the Cherishing Till They -- the Cherishing deny -- With Death's Ethereal Scron --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d522\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad I presumed to hope -- The loss had been to Me A Value -- for the Greatness' Sake -As Giants -- gone away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad I presumed to gain A Favor so remote -- The failure but confirm the Grace In further Infinite --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis failure -- not of Hope -- But Confident Despair -- Advancing on Celestial Lists -- With faint -- Terrestial power -- 'Tis Honor -- though I die -- For That no Man obtain Till He be justified by Death -- This -- is the Second Gain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d523\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSweet -- You forgot -- but I remembered Every time -- for Two -- So that the Sum be never hindered Through Decay of You --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSay if I erred? Accuse my Farthings -- Blame the little Hand Happy it be for You -- a Beggar's -- Seeking More -- to spend --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJust to be Rich -- to waste my Guineas On so Best a Heart -- Just to be Poor -- for Barefoot Vision You -- Sweet -- Shut me out --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d524\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeparted -- to the Judgment -- A Mighty Afternoon -- Great Clouds -- like Ushers -- learning -- Creation -- looking on -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Flesh -- Surrendered -- Cancelled -- The Bodiless -- begun - Two Worlds -- like Audiences -- disperse -- And leave the Soul -- alone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d525 I think the Hemlock likes to stand Upon a Marge of Snow -- It suits his own Austerity -- And satisfies an awe\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat men, must slake in Wilderness -- And in the Desert -- cloy -- An instinct for the Hoar, the Bald -- Lapland's -- necessity -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Hemlock's nature thrives -- on cold -- The Gnash of Northern winds Is sweetest nutriment -- to him -- His best Norwegian Wines --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo satin Races -- he is nought -- But Children on the Don, Beneath his Tabernacles, play, And Dnieper Wrestlers, run.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d526\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo hear an Oriole sing May be a common thing -- Or only a divine.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt is not of the Bird Who sings the same, unheard, As unto Crowd --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Fashion of the Ear Attireth that it hear In Dun, or fair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo whether it be Rune, Or whether it be none Is of within.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe "Tune is in the Tree --" The Skeptic -- showeth me -- "No Sir! In Thee!" 527\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo put this World down, like a Bundle -- And walk steady, away, Requires Energy -- possibly Agony -- 'Tis the Scarlet way\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTrodden with straight renunciation By the Son of God -- Later, his faint Confederates Justify the Road --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFlavors of that old Crucifixion -- Filaments of Bloom, Pontius Pilate sowed -- Strong Clusters, from Barabbas' Tomb --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSacrament, Saints partook before us -- Patent, every drop, With the Brand of the Gentile Drinker Who indorsed the Cup --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d528\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMine -- by the Right of the White Election! Mine -- by the Royal Seal! Mine -- by the Sign in the Scarlet prison -- Bars -- cannot conceal!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMine -- here -- in Vision -- and in Veto! Mine -- by the Grave's Repeal -- Tilted -- Confirmed -- Delirious Charter! Mine -- long as Ages steal!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d529\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'm sorry for the Dead -- Today -- It's such congenial times Old Neighbors have at fences -- It's time o' year for Hay.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Broad -- Sunburned Acquaintance Discourse between the Toil -- And laugh, a homely species That makes the Fences smile --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt seems so straight to lie away From all of the noise of Fields -- The Busy Carts -- the fragrant Cocks -- The Mower's Metre -- Steals --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Trouble lest they're homesick -- Those Farmers -- and their Wives -- Set separate from the Farming -- And all the Neighbors' lives --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Wonder if the Sepulchre Don't feel a lonesome way -- When Men -- and Boys -- and Carts -- and June, Go down the Fields to "Hay" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d530\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou cannot put a Fire out -- A Thing that can ignite Can go, itself, without a Fan -- Upon the slowest Night --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou cannot fold a Flood -- And put it in a Drawer -- Because the Winds would find it out -And tell your Cedar Floor --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d531\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe dream -- it is good we are dreaming -- It would hurt us -- were we awake -- But since it is playing -- kill us, And we are playing -- shriek --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat harm? Men die -- externally -- It is a truth -- of Blood -- But we -- are dying in Drama -- And Drama -- is never dead --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCautious -- We jar each other -- And either -- open the eyes -- Lest the Phantasm -- prove the Mistake -- And the livid Surprise\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCool us to Shafts of Granite -- With just an Age -- and Name -- And perhaps a phrase in Egyptian -- It's prudenter -- to dream --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d532\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI tried to think a lonelier Thing Than any I had seen -- Some Polar Expiation -- An Omen in the Bone Of Death's tremendous nearness --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI probed Retrieverless things My Duplicate -- to borrow -- A Haggard Comfort springs\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrom the belief that Somewhere -- Within the Clutch of Thought -- There dwells one other Creature Of Heavenly Love -- forgot --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI plucked at our Partition As One should pry the Walls -- Between Himself -- and Horror's Twin -- Within Opposing Cells -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI almost strove to clasp his Hand, Such Luxury -- it grew -- That as Myself -- could pity Him -- Perhaps he -- pitied me -- Two butterflies went out at Noon -- And waltzed upon a Farm -- Then stepped straight through the Firmament And rested, on a Beam --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then -- together bore away Upon a shining Sea -- Though never yet, in any Port -- Their coming, mentioned -- be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf spoken by the distant Bird -- If met in Ether Sea By Frigate, or by Merchantman -- No notice -- was -- to me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d534\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe see -- Comparatively -- The Thing so towering high We could not grasp its segment Unaided -- Yesterday --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis Morning's finer Verdict -- Makes scarcely worth the toil -- A furrow -- Our Cordillera -- Our Apennine -- a Knoll --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps 'tis kindly -- done us -- The Anguish -- and the loss -- The wrenching -- for His Firmament The Thing belonged to us --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo spare these Striding Spirits Some Morning of Chagrin -- The waking in a Gnat's -- embrace -- Our Giants -- further on -- She's happy, with a new Content -- That feels to her -- like Sacrament -- She's busy -- with an altered Care -- As just apprenticed to the Air --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe's tearful -- if she weep at all -- For blissful}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Causes -- Most of all That Heaven permit so meek as her -- To such a Fate -- to Minister.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d536\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heart asks Pleasure -- first -- And then -- Excuse from Pain -- And then -- those little Anodyness That deaden suffering -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then -- to go to sleep -- And then -- if it should be The will of its Inquisitor The privilege to die --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d537\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMe prove it now -- Whoever doubt Me stop to prove it -- now -- Make haste -- the Scruple! Death be scant For Opportunity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe River reaches to my feet -- As yet -- My Heart be dry -- Oh Lover -- Life could not convince -- Might Death -- enable Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe River reaches to My Breast -- Still -- still -- My Hands above Proclaim with their remaining Might -- Dost recognize the Love?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe River reaches to my Mouth -- Remember -- when the Sea Swept by my searching eyes -- the last -- Themselves were quick -- with Thee!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d538\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis true -- They shut me in the Cold -- But then -- Themselves were warm And could not know the feeling 'twas -- Forget it -- Lord -- of Them --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet not my Witness hinder Them In Heavenly esteem -- No Paradise could be -- Conferred Through Their beloved Blame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Harm They did -- was short -- And since Myself -- who bore it -- do -- Forgive Them -- Even as Myself -- Or else -- forgive not me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d539\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Province of the Saved Should be the Art -- To save -- Through Skill obtained in Themselves -- The Science of the Grave\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Man can understand But He that hath endured The Dissolution -- in Himself -- That Man -- be qualified\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo qualify Despair To Those who failing new -- Mistake Defeat for Death -- Each time -- Till acclimated -- to -- I took my Power in my Hand -- And went against the World -- 'Twas not so much as David -- had -- But I -- was twice as bold --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI aimed by Pebble -- but Myself Was all the one that fell -- Was it Goliath -- was too large -- Or was myself -- too small?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d541\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome such Butterfly be seen On Brazilian Pampas -- Just at noon -- no later -- Sweet -- Then -- the License closes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome such Spice -- express and pass -- Subject to Your Plucking -- As the Stars -- You knew last Night -- Foreigners -- This Morning --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d542\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI had no Cause to be awake -- My Best -- was gone to sleep -- And Morn a new politeness took -- And failed to wake them up --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut called the others -- clear -- And passed their Curtains by -- Sweet Morning -- when I oversleep -- Knock -- Recollect -- to Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI looked at Sunrise -- Once -- And then I looked at Them -- And wishfulness in me arose -- For Circumstance the same -- 'Twas such an Ample Peace -- It could not hold a Sigh -- 'Twas Sabbath -- with the Bells divorced -- 'Twas Sunset -- all the Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo choosing but a Gown -- And taking but a Prayer -- The only Raiment I should need -- I struggled -- and was There --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d543\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI fear a Man of frugal Speech -- I fear a Silent Man -- Haranguer -- I can overtake -- Or Babbler -- entertain -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut He who weigheth -- While the Rest -- Expend their furthest pound -- Of this Man -- I am wary -- I fear that He is Grand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d544\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Martyr Poets -- did not tell -- But wrought their Pang in syllable -That when their mortal name be numb -- Their mortal fate -- encourage Some --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Martyr Painters -- never spoke -- Bequeathing -- rather -- to their Work -- That when their conscious fingers cease -- Some seek in Art -- the Art of Peace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d545 'Tis One by One -- the Father counts -- And then a Tract between Set Cypherless -- to teach the Eye The Value of its Ten --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUntil the peevish Student Acquire the Quick of Skill -- Then Numerals are dowered back -Adorning all the Rule --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis mostly Slate and Pencil -- And Darkness on the School Distracts the Children's fingers -- Still the Eternal Rule\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRegards least Cypherer alike With Leader of the Band -- And every separate Urchin's Sum -- Is fashioned for his hand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d546\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo fill a Gap Insert the Thing that caused it -- Block it up With Other -- and 'twill yawn the more -- You cannot solder an Abyss With Air.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d547\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI've seen a Dying Eye Run round and round a Room -- In search of Something -- as it seemed -- Then Cloudier become -- And then -- obscure with Fog -- And then -- be soldered down Without disclosing what it be 'Twere blessed to have seen -- 548\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeath is potential to that Man Who dies -- and to his friend -- Beyond that -- unconspicuous To Anyone but God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf these Two -- God remembers The longest -- for the friend -- Is integral -- and therefore Itself dissolved -- of God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d549\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat I did always love I bring thee Proof That till I loved I never lived -- Enough --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat I shall love alway -- I argue thee That love is life -- And life hath Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis -- dost thou doubt -- Sweet -- Then have I Nothing to show But Calvary --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d550\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cross till I am weary A Mountain -- in my mind -- More Mountains -- then a Sea -- More Seas -- And then A Desert -- find --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd My Horizon blocks With steady -- drifting -- Grains Of unconjectured quantity -- As Asiatic Rains --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor this -- defeat my Pace -- It hinder from the West But as an Enemy's Salute One hurrying to Rest --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat merit had the Goal -- Except there intervene Faint Doubt -- and far Competitor -- To jeopardize the Gain?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt last -- the Grace in sight -- I shout unto my feet -- I offer them the Whole of Heaven The instant that we meet --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey strive -- and yet delay -- They perish -- Do we die -- Or is this Death's Experiment -- Reversed -- in Victory?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d551\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is a Shame of Nobleness -- Confronting Sudden Pelf -- A finer Shame of Ecstasy -- Convicted of Itself --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA best Disgrace -- a Brave Man feels -- Acknowledged -- of the Brave -- One More -- "Ye Blessed" -- to be told -- But that's -- Behind the Grave --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d552\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn ignorance a Sunset Confer upon the Eye -- Of Territory -- Color -- Circumference -- Decay -- Its Amber Revelation Exhilirate -- Debase -- Omnipotence' inspection Of Our inferior face --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when the solemn features Confirm -- in Victory -- We start -- as if detected In Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d553\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne Crucifixion is recorded -- only -- How many be Is not affirmed of Mathematics -- Or History -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne Calvary -- exhibited to Stranger -- As many be As persons -- or Peninsulas -- Gethsemane --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs but a Province -- in the Being's Centre -- Judea -- For Journey -- or Crusade's Achieving -- Too near --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur Lord -- indeed -- made Compound Witness -And yet -- There's newer -- nearer Crucifixion Than That --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d554\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Black Berry -- wears a Thorn in his side -- But no Man heard Him cry -- He offers His Berry, just the same To Partridge -- and to Boy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe sometimes holds upon the Fence -- Or struggles to a Tree -- Or clasps a Rock, with both His Hands -- But not for Sympathy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe -- tell a Hurt -- to cool it -- This Mourner -- to the Sky A little further reaches -- instead -- Brave Black Berry --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d555\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTrust in the Unexpected -- By this -- was William Kidd Persuaded of the Buried Gold -- As One had testified --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThrough this -- the old Philosopher -His Talismanic Stone Discerned -- still withholden To effort undivine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas this -- allured Columbus -- When Genoa -- withdrew Before an Apparition Baptized America --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Same -- afflicted Thomas -- When Deity assured 'Twas better -- the perceiving not -- Provided it believed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d556\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Brain, within its Groove Runs evenly -- and true -- But let a Splinter swerve -- 'Twere easier for You --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo put a Current back - When Floods have slit the Hills -- And scooped a Turnpike for Themselves -- And trodden out the Mills --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d557\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe hideth Her the last -- And is the first, to rise - Her Night doth hardly recompense The Closing of Her eyes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe doth Her Purple Work -- And putteth Her away In low Apartments in the Sod - As worthily as We.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo imitate her life As impotent would be As make of Our imperfect Mints, The Julep -- of the Bee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d558\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut little Carmine hath her face -- Of Emerald scant -- her Gown -- Her Beauty -- is the love she doth -Itself -- exhibit -- Mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d559\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt knew no Medicine -- It was not Sickness -- then -- Nor any need of Surgery -- And therefore -- 'twas not Pain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt moved away the Cheeks -- A Dimple at a time -- And left the Profile -- plainer -- And in the place of Bloom It left the little Tint That never had a Name -- You've seen it on a Cast's face -- Was Paradise -- to blame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf momently ajar -- Temerity -- drew near -- And sickened -- ever afterward For Somewhat that it saw?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d560\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt knew no lapse, nor Diminuation -- But large -- serene -- Burned on -- until through Dissolution -- It failed from Men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could not deem these Planetary forces Annulled -- But suffered an Exchange of Territory -- Or World --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d561\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI measure every Grief I meet With narrow, probing, Eyes -- I wonder if It weighs like Mine -- Or has an Easier size.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI wonder if They bore it long -- Or did it just begin -- I could not tell the Date of Mine -- It feels so old a pain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI wonder if it hurts to live -- And if They have to try -- And whether -- could They choose between -- It would not be -- to die -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI note that Some -- gone patient long -- At length, renew their smile -- An imitation of a Light That has so little Oil --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI wonder if when Years have piled -- Some Thousands -- on the Harm -- That hurt them early -- such a lapse Could give them any Balm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr would they go on aching still Through Centuries of Nerve -- Enlightened to a larger Pain - In Contrast with the Love --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Grieved -- are many -- I am told -- There is the various Cause -- Death -- is but one -- and comes but once -- And only nails the eyes -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere's Grief of Want -- and Grief of Cold -- A sort they call "Despair" -- There's Banishment from native Eyes -- In sight of Native Air --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd though I may not guess the kind -- Correctly -- yet to me A piercing Comfort it affords In passing Calvary --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo note the fashions -- of the Cross -And how they're mostly worn -- Still fascinated to presume That Some -- are like}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
My Own --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d562\u13\'0d\u13\'0dConjecturing a Climate Of unsuspended Suns -- Adds poignancy to Winter -- The Shivering Fancy turns\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo a fictitious Country To palliate a Cold -- Not obviated of Degree -- Nor erased -- of Latitude --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d563\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could not prove the Years had feet -- Yet confident they run Am I, from symptoms that are past And Series that are done --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI find my feet have further Goals -- I smile upon the Aims That felt so ample -- Yesterday -- Today's -- have vaster claims --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI do not doubt the self I was Was competent to me -- But something awkward in the fit -- Proves that -- outgrown -- I see --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d564\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy period had come for Prayer -- No other Art -- would do -- My Tactics missed a rudiment -- Creator -- Was it you?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGod grows above -- so those who pray Horizons -- must ascend -- And so I stepped upon the North To see this Curious Friend --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis House was not -- no sign had He -- By Chimney -- nor by Door Could I infer his Residence -- Vast Prairies of Air\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnbroken by a Settler -- Were all that I could see -- Infinitude -- Had'st Thou no Face That I might look on Thee?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Silence condescended -- Creation stopped -- for Me -- But awed beyond my errand -- I worshipped -- did not "pray" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d565\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne Anguish -- in a Crowd -- A Minor thing -- it sounds -- And yet, unto the single Doe Attempted of the Hounds\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Terror as consummate As Legions of Alarm Did leap, full flanked, upon the Host -- 'Tis Units -- make the Swarm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Small Leech -- on the Vitals -- The sliver, in the Lung - The Bung out -- of an Artery -- Are scarce accounted -- Harms --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYet might -- by relation To that Repealless thing -- A Being -- impotent to end -- When once it has begun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d566\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Dying Tiger -- moaned for Drink -- I hunted all the Sand -- I caught the Dripping of a Rock And bore it in my Hand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Mighty Balls -- in death were thick -- But searching -- I could see A Vision on the Retina Of Water -- and of me -- 'Twas not my blame -- who sped too slow -- 'Twas not his blame -- who died While I was reaching him -- But 'twas -- the fact that He was dead --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d567\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe gave away his Life -To Us -- Gigantic Sum -- A trifle -- in his own esteem -- But magnified -- by Fame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUntil it burst the Hearts That fancied they could hold -- When swift it slipped its limit -- And on the Heavens -- unrolled --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Ours -- to wince -- and weep -- And wonder -- and decay By Blossoms gradual process -- He chose -- Maturity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd quickening -- as we sowed -- Just obviated Bud -- And when We turned to note the Growth -- Broke -- perfect -- from the Pod --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d568\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe learned the Whole of Love -- The Alphabet -- the Words -- A Chapter -- then the mighty Book -- Then -- Revelation closed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut in Each Other's eyes An Ignorance beheld - Diviner than the Childhood's -- And each to each, a Child -- Attempted to expound What Neither -- understood -- Alas, that Wisdom is so large -- And Truth -- so manifold!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d569\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI reckon -- when I count it all -- First -- Poets -- Then the Sun -- Then Summer -- Then the Heaven of God -- And then -- the List is done --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut, looking back -- the First so seems To Comprehend the Whole -- The Others look a needless Show -- So I write -- Poets -- All -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir Summer -- lasts a Solid Year -- They can afford a Sun The East -- would deem extravagant -- And if the Further Heaven --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBe Beautiful as they prepare For Those who worship Them -- It is too difficult a Grace -- To justify the Dream --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d570\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could die -- to know -- 'Tis a trifling knowledge -- News-Boys salute the Door -- Carts -- joggle by -- Morning's bold face -- stares in the window -- Were but mine -- the Charter of the least Fly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHouses hunch the House With their Brick Shoulders -- Coals -- from a Rolling Load -- rattle -- how -- near -- To the very Square -- His foot is passing -- Possibly, this moment -- While I -- dream -- Here -- 571\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMust be a Woe -- A loss or so -- To bend the eye Best Beauty's way --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut -- once aslant It notes Delight As difficult As Stalactite\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Common Bliss Were had for less -- The price -- is Even as the Grace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur lord -- thought no Extravagance To pay -- a Cross --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d572\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDelight -- becomes pictorial -- When viewed through Pain -- More fair -- because impossible Than any gain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Mountain -- at a given distance -In Amber -- lies -- Approached -- the Amber flits -- a little -- And That's -- the Skies -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d573\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Test of Love -- is Death -- Our Lord -- "so loved" -- it saith -- What Largest Lover -- hath Another -- doth --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf smaller Patience -- be -- Through less Infinity -- If Bravo, sometimes swerve -- Through fainter Nerve --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAccept its Most -- And overlook -- the Dust -- Last -- Least -- The Cross' -- Request --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d574\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy first well Day -- since many ill -- I asked to go abroad, And take the Sunshine in my hands, And see the things in Pod --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA 'blossom just when I went in To take my Chance with pain -- Uncertain if myself, or He, Should prove the strongest One.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Summer deepened, while we strove -- She put some flowers away -- And Redder cheeked Ones -- in their stead -- A fond -- illusive way --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo cheat Herself, it seemed she tried -- As if before a child To fade -- Tomorrow -- Rainbows held The Sepulchre, could hide.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe dealt a fashion to the Nut -- She tied the Hoods to Seeds -- She dropped bright scraps of Tint, about -- And left Brazilian Threads\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn every shoulder that she met -- Then both her Hands of Haze Put up -- to hide her parting Grace From our unfitted eyes.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy loss, by sickness -- Was it Loss? Or that Ethereal Gain One earns by measuring the Grave -- Then -- measuring the Sun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d575\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Heaven" has different Signs -- to me -- Sometimes, I think that Noon Is but a symbol of the Place -- And when again, at Dawn,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA mighty look runs round the World And settles in the Hills - An Awe if it should be like that Upon the Ignorance steals --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Orchard, when the Sun is on -The Triumph of the Birds When they together Victory make -- Some Carnivals of Clouds --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Rapture of a finished Day -- Returning to the West - All these -- remind us of the place That Men call "paradise" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dItself be fairer -- we suppose -- But how Ourself, shall be Adorned, for a Superior Grace -- Not yet, our eyes can see --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d576\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI prayed, at first, a little Girl, Because they told me to -- But stopped, when qualified to guess How prayer would feel -- to me -- If I believed God looked around, Each time my Childish eye Fixed full, and steady, on his own In Childish honesty --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd told him what I'd like, today, And parts of his far plan That baffled me -- The mingled side Of his Divinity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd often since, in Danger, I count the force 'twould be To have a God so strong as that To hold my life for me\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill I could take the Balance That tips so frequent, now, It takes me all the while to poise -- And then -- it doesn't stay --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d577\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I may have it, when it's dead, I'll be contented -- so - If just as soon as Breath is out It shall belong to me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUntil they lock it in the Grave, 'Tis Bliss I cannot weigh -- For tho' they lock Thee in the Grave, Myself -- can own the key --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThink of it Lover! I and Thee Permitted -- face to face to be -- After a Life -- a Death -- We'll say -- For Death was That -- And this -- is Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'll tell Thee All -- how Bald it grew -- How Midnight felt, at first -- to me -- How all the Clocks stopped in the World -- And Sunshine pinched me -- 'Twas so cold -- Then how the Grief got sleepy -- some -- As if my Soul were deaf and dumb -- Just making signs -- across -- to Thee -- That this way -- thou could'st notice me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'll tell you how I tried to keep A smile, to show you, when this Deep All Waded -- We look back for Play, At those Old Times -- in Calvary,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dForgive me, if the Grave come slow -- For Coveting to look at Thee -- Forgive me, if to stroke thy frost Outvisions Paradise!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d578\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Body grows without -- The more convenient way -- That if the Spirit -- like to hide Its Temple stands, alway,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAjar -- secure -- inviting -- It never did betray The Soul that asked its shelter In solemn honesty\u13\'0d\u13\'0d579\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI had been hungry, all the Years -- My Noon had Come -- to dine -- I trembling drew the Table near -- And touched the Curious Wine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas this on Tables I had seen -- When turning, hungry, Home I looked in Windows, for the Wealth I could not hope -- for Mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI did not know the ample Bread -- 'Twas so unlike the Crumb The Birds and I, had often shared In Nature's -- Dining Room --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Plenty hurt me -- 'twas so new -- Myself felt ill -- and odd -- As Berry -- of a Mountain Bush -- Transplanted -- to a Road --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor was I hungry -- so I found That Hunger -- was a way Of Persons outside Windows -- The Entering -- takes away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d580\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI gave myself to Him -- And took Himself, for Pay, The solemn contract of a Life Was ratified, this way --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wealth might disappoint -- Myself a poorer prove Than this great Purchaser suspect, The Daily Own -- of Love\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDepreciate the Vision - But till the Merchant buy -- Still Fable -- in the Isles of Spice -- The subtle Cargoes -- lie --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt least -- 'tis Mutual -- Risk -- Some -- found it -- Mutual Gain -- Sweet Debt of Life -- Each Night to owe -- Insolvent -- every Noon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d581\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI found the words to every thought I ever had -- but One -- And that -- defies me -- As a Hand did try to chalk the Sun\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo Races -- nurtured in the Dark -- How would your own -- begin? Can Blaze be shown in Cochineal -Or Noon -- in Mazarin?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d582\u13\'0d\u13\'0dInconceivably solemn! Things go gay Pierce -- by the very Press Of Imagery --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir far Parades -- order on the eye With a mute Pomp -- A pleading Pageantry --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFlags, are a brave sight -- But no true Eye Ever went by One -- Steadily --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMusic's triumphant -- But the fine Ear Winces with delight Are Drums too near --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d583\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Toad, can die of Light -- Death is the Common Right Of Toads and Men -- Of Earl and Midge The privilege -- Why swagger,}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
then? The Gnat's supremacy is large as Thine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLife -- is a different Thing -- So measure Wine -- Naked of Flask -- Naked of Cask -Bare Rhine -- Which Ruby's mine?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d584\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt ceased to hurt me, though so slow I could not feel the Anguish go -- But only knew by looking back -- That something -- had benumbed the Track --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor when it altered, I could say, For I had worn it, every day, As constant as the Childish frock -- I hung upon the Peg, at night.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut not the Grief -- that nestled close As needles -- ladies softly press To Cushions Cheeks - To keep their place --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor what consoled it, I could trace -Except, whereas 'twas Wilderness -It's better -- almost Peace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d585\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI like to see it lap the Miles -- And lick the Valleys up -- And stop to feed itself at Tanks -- And then -- prodigious step\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAround a Pile of Mountains -- And supercilious peer In Shanties -- by the sides of Roads -- And then a Quarry pare\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo fit its Ribs And crawl between Complaining all the while In horrid -- hooting stanza -- Then chase itself down Hill --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd neigh like Boanerges -- Then -- punctual as a Star Stop -- docile and omnipotent At its own stable door -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d586\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe talked as Girls do - Fond, and late -- We speculated fair, on every subject, but the Grave -- Of ours, none affair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe handled Destinies, as cool -- As we -- Disposers -- be -- And God, a Quiet Party To our Authority --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut fondest, dwelt upon Ourself As we eventual -- be -- When Girls to Women, softly raised We -- occupy -- Degree --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe parted with a contract To cherish, and to write But Heaven made both, impossible Before another night.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d587\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEmpty my Heart, of Thee -- Its single Artery -- Begin, and leave Thee out -- Simply Extinction's Date --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMuch Billow hath the Sea -- One Baltic -- They -- Subtract Thyself, in play, And not enough of me Is left -- to put away -- "Myself" meanth Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dErase the Root -- no Tree -- Thee -- then -- no me -- The Heavens stripped - Eternity's vast pocket, picked --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d588\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cried at Pity -- not at Pain -- I heard a Woman say "Poor Child" -- and something in her voice Convicted me -- of me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo long I fainted, to myself It seemed the common way, And Health, and Laughter, Curious things -- To look at, like a Toy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo sometimes hear "Rich people" buy And see the Parcel rolled -- And carried, I supposed -- to Heaven, For children, made of Gold --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut not to touch, or wish for, Or think of, with a sigh - And so and so -- had been to me, Had God willed differently.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI wish I knew that Woman's name -- So when she comes this way, To hold my life, and hold my ears For fear I hear her say\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe's "sorry I am dead" -- again -- Just when the Grave and I -- Have sobbed ourselves almost to sleep, Our only Lullaby --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d589 The Night was wide, and furnished scant With but a single Star -- That often as a Cloud it met -- Blew out itself -- for fear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wind pursued the little Bush -And drove away the Leaves November left -- then clambered up And fretted in the Eaves --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Squirrel went abroad -- A Dog's belated feet Like intermittent Plush, he heard Adown the empty Street --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo feel if Blinds be fast - And closer to the fire - Her little Rocking Chair to draw -- And shiver for the Poor --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Housewife's gentle Task -- How pleasanter -- said she Unto the Sofa opposite - The Sleet -- than May, no Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d590\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDid you ever stand in a Cavern's Mouth -- Widths out of the Sun -- And look -- and shudder, and block your breath -- And deem to be alone\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn such a place, what horror, How Goblin it would be - And fly, as 'twere pursuing you? Then Loneliness -- looks so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDid you ever look in a Cannon's face -- Between whose Yellow eye -- And yours -- the Judgment intervened -- The Question of "To die" -- Extemporizing in your ear As cool as Satyr's Drums -- If you remember, and were saved -- It's liker so -- it seems --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d591\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo interrupt His Yellow Plan The Sun does not allow Caprices of the Atmosphere -- And even when the Snow\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHeaves Balls of Specks, like Vicious Boy Directly in His Eye -- Does not so much as turn His Head Busy with Majesty --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis His to stimulate the Earth -- And magnetize the Sea -- And bind Astronomy, in place, Yet Any passing by\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWould deem Ourselves -- the busier As the Minutest Bee That rides -- emits a Thunder -- A Bomb -- to justify --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d592\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat care the Dead, for Chanticleer -- What care the Dead for Day? 'Tis late your Sunrise vex their face -- And Purple Ribaldry -- of Morning\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPour as blank on them As on the Tier of Wall The Mason builded, yesterday, And equally as cool --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat care the Dead for Summer? The Solstice had no Sun Could waste the Snow before their Gate -- And knew One Bird a Tune -- Could thrill their Mortised Ear Of all the Birds that be - This One -- beloved of Mankind Henceforward cherished be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat care the Dead for Winter? Themselves as easy freeze -- June Noon -- as January Night -- As soon the South -- her Breeze\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Sycamore -- or Cinnamon -- Deposit in a Stone And put a Stone to keep it Warm -- Give Spices -- unto Men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d593\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI think I was enchanted When first a sombre Girl -- I read that Foreign Lady -- The Dark -- felt beautiful --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd whether it was noon at night -Or only Heaven -- at Noon -- For very Lunacy of Light I had not power to tell --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Bees -- became as Butterflies - The Butterflies -- as Swans -- Approached -- and spurned the narrow Grass -- And just the meanest Tunes\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Nature murmured to herself To keep herself in Cheer -- I took for Giants -- practising Titanic Opera --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Days -- to Mighty Metres stept -- The Homeliest -- adorned As if unto a Jubilee 'Twere suddenly confirmed -- I could not have defined the change -Conversion of the Mind Like Sanctifying in the Soul -- Is witnessed -- not explained --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas a Divine Insanity -- The Danger to be Sane Should I again experience -- 'Tis Antidote to turn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo Tomes of solid Witchcraft -- Magicians be asleep -- But Magic -- hath an Element Like Deity -- to keep --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d594\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Battle fought between the Soul And No Man -- is the One Of all the Battles prevalent -- By far the Greater One --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo News of it is had abroad -- Its Bodiless Campaign Establishes, and terminates -- Invisible -- Unknown --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor History -- record it - As Legions of a Night The Sunrise scatters -- These endure -- Enact -- and terminate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d595\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike Mighty Foot Lights -- burned the Red At Bases of the Trees - The far Theatricals of Day Exhibiting -- to These - 'Twas Universe -- that did applaud -While Chiefest -- of the Crowd -- Enabled by his Royal Dress -- Myself distinguished God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d596\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen I was small, a Woman died -- Today -- her Only Boy Went up from the Potomac -- His face all Victory\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo look at her -- How slowly The Seasons must have turned Till Bullets clipt an Angle And He passed quickly round --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf pride shall be in Paradise -- Ourself cannot decide -Of their imperial Conduct -- No person testified --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut, proud in Apparition -- That Woman and her Boy Pass back and forth, before my Brain As even in the sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'm confident that Bravoes -- Perpetual break abroad For Braveries, remote as this In Scarlet Maryland --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d597\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt always felt to me -- a wrong To that Old Moses -- done -- To let him see -- the Canaan -- Without the entering --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd tho' in soberer moments -- No Moses there can be I'm satisfied -- the Romance In point of injury --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSurpasses sharper stated -- Of Stephen -- or of Paul -- For these -- were only put to death -While God's adroiter will\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn Moses -- seemed to fasten With tantalizing Play As Boy -- should deal with lesser Boy -- To prove ability.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe fault -- was doubtless Israel's -Myself -- had banned the Tribes -- And ushered Grand Old Moses In Pentateuchal Robes\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUpon the Broad Possession 'Twas little -- But titled Him -- to see -- Old Man on Nebo! Late as this -- My justice bleeds -- for Thee!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d598\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThree times -- we parted -- Breath -- and I -- Three times -- He would not go -- But strove to stir the lifeless Fan The Waters -- strove to stay.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThree Times -- the Billows tossed me up -- Then caught me -- like a Ball -- Then made Blue faces in my face -- And pushed away a sail\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat crawled Leagues off -- I liked to see -- For thinking -- while I die -- How pleasant to behold a Thing Where Human faces -- be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Waves grew sleepy -- Breath -- did not -- The Winds -- like Children -- lulled -Then Sunrise kissed my Chrysalis -- And I stood up -- and lived --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d599\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is a pain -- so utter -- It swallows substance up -- Then covers the Abyss with Trance -- So Memory can step Around -- across -- upon it -- As one within a Swoon -- Goes safely -- where an open eye -- Would drop Him -- Bone by Bone.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 600-699\u13\'0d\u13\'0d600\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt troubled me as once I was -- For I was once a Child - Concluding how an Atom -- fell -- And yet the Heavens -- held --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heavens weighed the most -- by far -- Yet Blue -- and solid -- stood -- Without a Bolt -- that I could prove -- Would Giants -- understand?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLife set me larger -- problems -- Some I shall keep -- to solve Till Algebra is easier -- Or simpler proved -- above --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen -- too -- be comprehended -- What sorer -- puzzled me -- Why Heaven did not break away -- And tumble -- Blue -- on me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d601\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA still -- Volcano -- Life - That flickered in the night -- When it was dark enough to do Without erasing sight --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA quiet -- Earthquake Style -- Too subtle to suspect By natures this side Naples -- The North cannot detect\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Solemn -- Torrid -- Symbol -- The lips that never lie -- Whose hissing Corals part -- and shut -- And Cities -- ooze away -- 602\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Brussels -- it was not -- Of Kidderminster? Nay -- The Winds did buy it of the Woods -They -- sold it unto me\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt was a gentle price -- The poorest -- could afford -- It was within the frugal purse Of Beggar -- or of Bird --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf small and spicy Yards -- In hue -- a mellow Dun -- Of Sunshine -- and of Sere -- Composed}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
-- But, principally -- of Sun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wind -- unrolled it fast -- And spread it on the Ground -- Upholsterer of the Pines -- is He -- Upholsterer -- of the Pond --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d603\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe found my Being -- set it up -- Adjusted it to place -- Then carved his name -- upon it -- And bade it to the East\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBe faithful -- in his absence -- And he would come again -- With Equipage of Amber -- That time -- to take it Home --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d604\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnto my Books -- so good to turn -- Far ends of tired Days -- It half endears the Abstinence -- And Pain -- is missed -- in Praise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Flavors -- cheer Retarded Guests With Banquettings to be -- So Spices -- stimulate the time Till my small Library --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt may be Wilderness -- without -- Far feet of failing Men -- But Holiday -- excludes the night -- And it is Bells -- within -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI thank these Kinsmen of the Shelf -- Their Countenances Kid Enamor -- in Prospective -- And satisfy -- obtained -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d605\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Spider holds a Silver Ball In unperceived Hands -- And dancing softly to Himself His Yarn of Pearl -- unwinds --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe plies from Nought to Nought -- In unsubstantial Trade - Supplants our Tapestries with His -In half the period --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn Hour to rear supreme His Continents of Light - Then dangle from the Housewife's Broom -- His Boundaries -- forgot --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d606\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Trees like Tassels -- hit -- and swung -- There seemed to rise a Tune From Miniature Creatures Accompanying the Sun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFar Psalteries of Summer -- Enamoring the Ear They never yet did satisfy -- Remotest -- when most fair\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun shone whole at intervals -- Then Half -- then utter hid -- As if Himself were optional And had Estates of Cloud\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSufficient to enfold Him Eternally from view -- Except it were a whim of His To let the Orchards grow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Bird sat careless on the fence -One gossipped in the Lane On silver matters charmed a Snake Just winding round a Stone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBright Flowers slit a Calyx And soared upon a Stem Like Hindered Flags -- Sweet hoisted -- With Spices -- in the Hem --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas more -- I cannot mention -- How mean -- to those that see -- Vandyke's Delineation Of Nature's -- Summer Day!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d607\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf nearness to her sundered Things The Soul has special times -- When Dimness -- looks the Oddity -- Distinctness -- easy -- seems --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Shapes we buried, dwell about, Familiar, in the Rooms -- Untarnished by the Sepulchre, The Mouldering Playmate comes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn just the Jacket that he wore -- Long buttoned in the Mold Since we -- old mornings, Children -- played -- Divided -- by a world --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Grave yields back her Robberies -- The Years, our pilfered Things -- Bright Knots of Apparitions Salute us, with their wings --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs we -- it were -- that perished -- Themself -- had just remained till we rejoin them -- And 'twas they, and not ourself That mourned.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d608\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAfraid! Of whom am I afraid? Not Death -- for who is He? The Porter of my Father's Lodge As much abasheth me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Life? 'Twere odd I fear [a] thing That comprehendeth me In one or two existences -- As Deity decree --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Resurrection? Is the East Afraid to trust the Morn With her fastidious forehead? As soon impeach my Crown!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d609\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI Years had been from Home And now before the Door I dared not enter, lest a Face I never saw before\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStare solid into mine And ask my Business there -- "My Business but a Life I left Was such remaining there?"\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI leaned upon the Awe -- I lingered with Before -- The Second like an Ocean rolled And broke against my ear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI laughed a crumbling Laugh That I could fear a Door Who Consternation compassed And never winced before.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI fitted to the Latch My Hand, with trembling care Lest back the awful Door should spring And leave me in the Floor --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen moved my Fingers off As cautiously as Glass And held my ears, and like a Thief Fled gasping from the House --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d610\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou'll find -- it when you try to die -- The Easier to let go -- For recollecting such as went -- You could not spare -- you know.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd though their places somewhat filled -- As did their Marble names With Moss -- they never grew so full -- You chose the newer names --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when this World -- sets further back -- As Dying -- say it does -- The former love -- distincter grows -- And supersedes the fresh --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Thought of them -- so fair invites -- It looks too tawdry Grace To stay behind -- with just the Toys We bought -- to ease their place --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d611\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI see thee better -- in the Dark -- I do not need a Light - The Love of Thee -- a Prism be -- Excelling Violet --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI see thee better for the Years That hunch themselves between -- The Miner's Lamp -- sufficient be -- To nullify the Mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd in the Grave -- I see Thee best -Its little Panels be Aglow -- All ruddy -- with the Light I held so high, for Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat need of Day -- To Those whose Dark -- hath so -- surpassing Sun -- It deem it be -- Continually -- At the Meridian?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d612\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt would have starved a Gnat -- To live so small as I -- And yet I was a living Child -- With Food's necessity\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUpon me -- like a Claw -- I could no more remove Than I could coax a Leech away -- Or make a Dragon -- move --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot like the Gnat -- had I -- The privilege to fly And seek a Dinner for myself -- How mightier He -- than I --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor like Himself -- the Art Upon the Window Pane To gad my little Being out -- And not begin -- again -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d613\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey shut me up in Prose -- As when a little Girl They put me in the Closet -- Because they liked me "still" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStill! Could themself have peeped -- And seen my Brain -- go round -- They might as wise have lodged a Bird For Treason -- in the Pound --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHimself has but to will And easy as a Star Abolish his Captivity -- And laugh -- No more have I --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d614\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn falling Timbers buried -- There breathed a Man -- Outside -- the spades -- were plying -- The Lungs -- within --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould He -- know -- they sought Him -- Could They -- know -- He breathed -- Horrid Sand Partition - Neither -- could be heard --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNever slacked the Diggers -- But when Spades had done -- Oh, Reward of Anguish, It was dying -- Then -- Many Things -- are fruitless -- 'Tis a Baffling Earth -- But there is no Gratitude Like the Grace -- of Death --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d615\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur journey had advanced -- Our feet were almost come To that odd Fork in Being's Road -- Eternity -- by Term --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur pace took sudden awe -- Our feet -- reluctant -- led -- Before -- were Cities -- but Between -- The Forest of the Dead --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRetreat -- was out of Hope -- Behind -- a Sealed Route -- Eternity's White Flag -- Before -- And God -- at every Gate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d616\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI rose -- because He sank -- I thought it would be opposite -- But when his power dropped -- My Soul grew straight.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cheered my fainting Prince -- I sang firm -- even -- Chants -- I helped his Film -- with Hymn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when the Dews drew off That held his Forehead stiff -- I met him -- Balm to Balm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI told him Best -- must pass Through this low Arch of Flesh -- No Casque so brave It spurn the Grave --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI told him Worlds I knew Where Emperors grew -- Who recollected us If we were true --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so with Thews of Hymn -- And Sinew from within -- And ways I knew not that I knew -- till then -- I lifted Him --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d617\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDon't put up my Thread and Needle -- I'll begin to Sew When the Birds begin to whistle -- Better Stitches -- so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese were bent -- my sight got crooked -- When my mind -- is plain I'll do seams -- a Queen's endeavor Would not blush to own --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHems -- too fine for Lady's tracing To the sightless Knot - Tucks -- of dainty interspersion -- Like a dotted Dot --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLeave my Needle in the furrow -- Where I put it down -- I can make the zigzag stitches Straight -- when I am strong --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill then -- dreaming I am sewing Fetch the seam I missed -- Closer -- so I -- at my sleeping -- Still surmise I stitch --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d618 At leisure is the Soul That gets a Staggering Blow -- The Width of Life -- before it spreads Without a thing to do --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt begs you give it Work -- But just the placing Pins -- Or humblest Patchwork -- Children do -- To Help its Vacant Hands --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d619\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGlee -- The great storm is over -- Four -- have recovered the Land -- Forty -- gone down together -- Into the boiling Sand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRing -- for the Scant Salvation -- Toll -- for the bonnie Souls -- Neighbor -- and friend -- and Bridegroom -- Spinning upon the Shoals --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow they will tell the Story -- When Winter shake the Door -- Till the Children urge -- But the Forty -- Did they -- come back no more?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen a softness -- suffuse the Story -- And a silence -- the Teller's eye -- And the Children -- no further question -- And only the Sea -- reply --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d620\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt makes no difference abroad -- The Seasons -- fit -- the same -- The Mornings blossom into Noons -- And split their Pods of Flame -- Wild flowers -- kindle in the Woods -The Brooks slam -- all the Day -- No Black bird bates his Banjo -- For passing Calvary --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAuto da Fe -- and Judgment -- Are nothing to the Bee -- His separation from His Rose -- To Him -- sums Misery -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d621\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI asked no other thing - No other -- was denied -- I offered Being -- for it - The Mighty Merchant sneered --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBrazil? He twirled a Button -- Without a glance my way -- "But -- Madam -- is there nothing else -- That We can show -- Today?"\u13\'0d\u13\'0d622\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo know just how He suffered -- would be dear -- To know if any Human eyes were near To whom He could entrust His wavering gaze -Until it settle broad -- on Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo know if He was patient -- part content -- Was Dying as He thought -- or different -- Was it a pleasant Day to die -- And did the Sunshine face his way --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat was His furthest mind -- Of Home -- or God -- Or what the Distant say -- At news that He ceased Human Nature Such a Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Wishes -- Had He Any -- Just His Sigh -- Accented -- Had been legible -- to Me -- And was He Confident until Ill fluttered out -- in Everlasting Well -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd if He spoke -- What name was Best -- What last What One broke off with At the Drowsiest --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWas He afraid -- or tranquil -- Might He know How Conscious}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Consciousness -- could grow -- Till Love that was -- and Love too best to be -- Meet -- and the Junction be Eternity\u13\'0d\u13\'0d623\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt was too late for Man -- But early, yet, for God -- Creation -- impotent to help -- But Prayer -- remained -- Our Side --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow excellent the Heaven -- When Earth -- cannot be had -- How hospitable -- then -- the face Of our Old Neighbor -- God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d624\u13\'0d\u13\'0dForever -- it composed of Nows -- 'Tis not a different time -- Except for Infiniteness - And Latitude of Home --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrom this -- experienced Here -- Remove the Dates -- to These -- Let Months dissolve in further Months -- And Years -- exhale in Years -- Without Debate -- or Pause -- Or Celebrated Days -- No different Our Years would be From Anno Domini's --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d625\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas a long Parting -- but the time For Interview -- had Come -- Before the Judgment Seat of God -- The last -- and second time\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese Fleshless Lovers met -- A Heaven in a Gaze -- A Heaven of Heavens -- the Privilege Of one another's Eyes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Lifetime -- on Them -- Appareled as the new Unborn -- except They had beheld -Born infiniter -- now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWas Bridal -- e'er like This? A Paradise -- the Host -- And Cherubim -- and Seraphim -- The unobtrusive Guest --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d626\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOnly God -- detect the Sorrow -- Only God - The Jehovahs -- are no Babblers -- Unto God -- God the Son -- Confide it -- Still secure - God the Spirit's Honor -- Just as sure --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d627 The Tint I cannot take -- is best -- The Color too remote That I could show it in Bazaar -- A Guinea at a sight --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe fine -- impalpable Array -- That swaggers on the eye Like Cleopatra's Company -- Repeated -- in the sky -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Moments of Dominion That happen on the Soul And leave it with a Discontent Too exquisite -- to tell -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe eager look -- on Landscapes -As if they just repressed Some Secret -- that was pushing Like Chariots -- in the Vest --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Pleading of the Summer -- That other Prank -- of Snow -- That Cushions Mystery with Tulle, For fear the Squirrels -- know.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir Graspless manners -- mock us -- Until the Cheated Eye Shuts arrogantly -- in the Grave -- Another way -- to see --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d628\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey called me to the Window, for " 'Twas Sunset" -- Some one said -I only saw a Sapphire Farm -- And just a Single Herd --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Opal Cattle -- feeding far Upon so vain a Hill -- As even while I looked -- dissolved -Nor Cattle were -- nor Soil -- But in their stead -- a Sea -- displayed -- And Ships -- of such a size As Crew of Mountains -- could afford -- And Decks -- to seat the skies --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis -- too -- the Showman rubbed away -- And when I looked again -- Nor Farm -- nor Opal Herd -- was there -- Nor Mediterranean --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d629\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI watched the Moon around the House Until upon a Pane -- She stopped -- a Traveller's privilege -- for Rest -- And there upon\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI gazed -- as at a stranger -- The Lady in the Town Doth think no incivility To lift her Glass -- upon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut never Stranger justified The Curiosity Like Mine -- for not a Foot -- nor Hand -- Nor Formula -- had she -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut like a Head -- a Guillotine Slid carelessly away -- Did independent, Amber -- Sustain her in the sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr like a Stemless Flower -- Upheld in rolling Air By finer Gravitations -- Than bind Philosopher -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Hunger -- had she -- nor an Inn -- Her Toilette -- to suffice - Nor Avocation -- nor Concern For little Mysteries As harass us -- like Life -- and Death -- And Afterwards -- or Nay -- But seemed engrossed to Absolute -With shining -- and the Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe privilege to scrutinize Was scarce upon my Eyes When, with a Silver practise -- She vaulted out of Gaze --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd next -- I met her on a Cloud -- Myself too far below To follow her superior Road -- Or its advantage -- Blue --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d630\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lightning playeth -- all the while -- But when He singeth -- then -- Ourselves are conscious He exist -- And we approach Him -- stern --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith Insulators -- and a Glove -- Whose short -- sepulchral Bass Alarms us -- tho' His Yellow feet May pass -- and counterpass --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUpon the Ropes -- above our Head -- Continual -- with the News -- Nor We so much as check our speech -- Nor stop to cross Ourselves --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d631\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOurselves were wed one summer -- dear -- Your Vision -- was in June -- And when Your little Lifetime failed, I wearied -- too -- of mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd overtaken in the Dark -- Where You had put me down -- By Some one carrying a Light -- I -- too -- received the Sign.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis true -- Our Futures different lay -- Your Cottage -- faced the sun -- While Oceans -- and the North must be -- On every side of mine\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis true, Your Garden led the Bloom, For mine -- in Frosts -- was sown -- And yet, one Summer, we were Queens -- But You -- were crowned in June --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d632\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Brain -- is wider than the Sky -- For -- put them side by side -- The one the other will contain With ease -- and You -- beside --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Brain is deeper than the sea -For -- hold them -- Blue to Blue -- The one the other will absorb -- As Sponges -- Buckets -- do --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Brain is just the weight of God -- For -- Heft them -- Pound for Pound -- And they will differ -- if they do -- As Syllable from Sound --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d633\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Bells stop ringing -- Church -- begins The Positive -- of Bells - When Cogs -- stop -- that's Circumference -- The Ultimate -- of Wheels.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Portion is Defeat -- today -- A paler luck than Victory -- Less Paeans -- fewer Bells -- The Drums don't follow Me -- with tunes -- Defeat -- a somewhat slower -- means -- More Arduous than Balls --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis populous with Bone and stain -And Men too straight to stoop again --, And Piles of solid Moan -- And Chips of Blank -- in Boyish Eyes -- And scraps of Prayer -- And Death's surprise, Stamped visible -- in Stone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere's somewhat prouder, over there -- The Trumpets tell it to the Air -- How different Victory To Him who has it -- and the One Who to have had it, would have been Contender -- to die --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d640\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cannot live with You -- It would be Life -- And Life is over there -- Behind the Shelf\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sexton keeps the Key to -- Putting up Our Life -- His Porcelain -- Like a Cup -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDiscarded of the Housewife -- Quaint -- or Broke -- A newer Sevres pleases -- Old Ones crack --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could not die -- with You -- For One must wait To shut the Other's Gaze down -- You -- could not --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd I -- Could I stand by And see You -- freeze -Without my Right of Frost -- Death's privilege? Nor could I rise -- with You -- Because Your Face Would put out Jesus' - That New Grace\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGlow plain -- and foreign On my homesick Eye -- Except that You than He Shone closer by --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey'd judge Us -- How -- For You -- served Heaven -- You know, Or sought to -- I could not -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause You saturated Sight -- And I had no more Eyes For sordid excellence As Paradise\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd were You lost, I would be -- Though My Name Rang loudest On the Heavenly fame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd were You -- saved -- And I -- condemned to be Where You were not -- That self -- were Hell to Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo We must meet apart -- You there -- I -- here -- With just the Door ajar That Oceans are -- and Prayer -- And that White Sustenance -- Despair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d641\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSize circumscribes -- it has no room For petty furniture -- The Giant tolerates no Gnat For Ease of Gianture --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRepudiates it, all the more -- Because intrinsic size Ignores the possibility Of Calumnies -- or Flies.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d642\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMe from Myself -- to banish -- Had I Art -- Impregnable my Fortress Unto All Heart --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut since Myself -- assault Me -- How have I peace Except by subjugating Consciousness?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd since We're mutual Monarch How this be Except by Abdication - Me -- of Me?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d643\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could suffice for Him, I knew -- He -- could suffice for Me -- Yet Hesitating Fractions -- Both Surveyed Infinity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Would I be Whole" He sudden broached -- My syllable rebelled -- 'Twas face to face with Nature -- forced -- 'Twas face to face with God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithdrew the Sun -- to Other Wests -- Withdrew the furthest Star Before Decision -- stooped to speech -- And then -- be audibler The Answer of the Sea unto The Motion of the Moon -- Herself adjust Her Tides -- unto -- Could I -- do else -- with Mine?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d644\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou left me -- Sire -- two Legacies -A Legacy of Love A Heavenly Father would suffice Had He the offer of --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou left me Boundaries of Pain -- Capacious as the Sea -- Between Eternity and Time -- Your Consciousness -- and Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d645\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBereavement in their death to feel Whom We have never seen -- A Vital Kinsmanship import Our Soul and theirs -- between --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor Stranger -- Strangers do not mourn -- There be Immortal friends Whom Death see first -- 'tis news of this That paralyze Ourselves --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho, vital only to Our Thought -- Such Presence bear away In dying -- 'tis as if Our Souls Absconded -- suddenly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d646 I think to Live -- may be a Bliss To those who dare to try -- Beyond my limit to conceive -- My lip -- to testify --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI think the Heart I former wore Could widen -- till to me The Other, like the little Bank Appear -- unto the Sea --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI think the Days -- could every one In Ordination stand -- And Majesty -- be easier -- Than an inferior kind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo numb alarm -- lest Difference come -- No Goblin -- on the Bloom -- No start in Apprehension's Ear, No Bankruptcy -- no Doom --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut Certainties of Sun -- Midsummer -- in the Mind -- A steadfast South -- upon the Soul -- Her Polar time -- behind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Vision -- pondered long -- So plausible becomes That I esteem the fiction -- real -- The Real -- fictitious seems --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow bountiful the Dream -- What Plenty -- it would be -- Had all my Life but been Mistake Just rectified -- in Thee\u13\'0d\u13\'0d647\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA little Road -- not made of Man -- Enabled of the Eye -- Accessible to Thill of Bee -- Or Cart of Butterfly -- If Town it have -- beyond itself -- 'Tis that -- I cannot say -- I only know -- no Curricle that rumble there Bear Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d648\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPromise This -- When You be Dying -- Some shall summon Me -- Mine belong Your latest Sighing -- Mine -- to Belt Your Eye --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot with Coins -- though they be Minted From an Emperor's}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hand -- Be my lips -- the only Buckle Your low Eyes -- demand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMine to stay -- when all have wandered -- To devise once more If the Life be too surrendered -- Life of Mine -- restore --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoured like this -- My Whole Libation -- Just that You should see Bliss of Death -- Life's Bliss extol thro' Imitating You --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMine -- to guard Your Narrow Precinct -- To seduce the Sun Longest on Your South, to linger, Largest Dews of Morn\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo demand, in Your low favor Lest the Jealous Grass Greener lean -- Or fonder cluster Round some other face --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMine to supplicate Madonna -- If Madonna be Could behold so far a Creature -- Christ -- omitted -- Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJust to follow Your dear future -- Ne'er so far behind -- For My Heaven -- Had I not been Most enough -- denied?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d649\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Sweet turn to leave the Homestead Came the Darker Way -- Carriages -- Be Sure -- and Guests -- too -- But for Holiday\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis more pitiful Endeavor Than did Loaded Sea O'er the Curls attempt to caper It had cast away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNever Bride had such Assembling -- Never kinsmen kneeled To salute so fair a Forehead -- Garland be indeed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFitter Feet -- of Her before us -- Than whatever Brow Art of Snow -- or Trick of Lily Possibly bestow\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Her Father -- Whoso ask Her -- He shall seek as high As the Palm -- that serve the Desert -- To obtain the Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDistance -- be Her only Motion -- If 'tis Nay -- or Yes -- Acquiescence -- or Demurral -- Whosoever guess --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe -- must pass the Crystal Angle That obscure Her face -- He -- must have achieved in person Equal Paradise -- 650\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPain -- has an Element of Blank -- It cannot recollect When it begun -- or if there were A time when it was not -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt has no Future -- but itself -- Its Infinite contain Its Past -- enlightened to perceive New Periods -- of Pain.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d651\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo much Summer Me for showing Illegitimate - Would a Smile's minute bestowing Too exorbitant\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo the Lady With the Guinea Look -- if She should know Crumb of Mine A Robin's Larder Would suffice to stow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d652\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Prison gets to be a friend -- Between its Ponderous face And Ours -- a Kinsmanship express -- And in its narrow Eyes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe come to look with gratitude For the appointed Beam It deal us -- stated as our food -- And hungered for -- the same -- We learn to know the Planks -- That answer to Our feet -- So miserable a sound -- at first -- Nor ever now -- so sweet --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs plashing in the Pools -- When Memory was a Boy -- But a Demurer Circuit -A Geometric Joy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Posture of the Key That interrupt the Day To Our Endeavor -- Not so real The Check of Liberty --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs this Phantasm Steel -- Whose features -- Day and Night -- Are present to us -- as Our Own -- And as escapeless -- quite --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe narrow Round -- the Stint -- The slow exchange of Hope -- For something passiver -- Content Too steep for lookinp up --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Liberty we knew Avoided -- like a Dream -- Too wide for any Night but Heaven -- If That -- indeed -- redeem --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d653\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Being is a Bird The likest to the Down An Easy Breeze do put afloat The General Heavens -- upon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt soars -- and shifts -- and whirls -And measures with the Clouds In easy -- even -- dazzling pace -- No different the Birds - Except a Wake of Music Accompany their feet - As did the Down emit a Tune -- For Ecstasy -- of it\u13\'0d\u13\'0d654\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA long -- long Sleep -- A famous -- Sleep -- That makes no show for Morn -- By Stretch of Limb -- or stir of Lid -An independent One --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWas ever idleness like This? Upon a Bank of Stone To bask the Centuries away -- Nor once look up -- for Noon?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d655\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithout this -- there is nought -- All other Riches be As is the Twitter of a Bird -- Heard opposite the Sea --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could not care -- to gain A lesser than the Whole -- For did not this include themself -- As Seams -- include the Ball?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI wished a way might be My Heart to subdivide -- 'Twould magnify -- the Gratitude -- And not reduce -- the Gold --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d656\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe name -- of it -- is "Autumn" -- The hue -- of it -- is Blood -- An Artery -- upon the Hill -- A Vein -- along the Road -- Great Globules -- in the Alleys -- And Oh, the Shower of Stain -- When Winds -- upset the Basin -- And spill the Scarlet Rain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt sprinkles Bonnets -- far below -- It gathers ruddy Pools -- Then -- eddies like a Rose -- away -- Upon Vermilion Wheels -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d657\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI dwell in Possibility -- A fairer House than Prose -- More numerous of Windows -- Superior -- for Doors --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Chambers as the Cedars -- Impregnable of Eye -- And for an Everlasting Roof The Gambrels of the Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Visitors -- the fairest - For Occupation -- This - The spreading wide of narrow Hands To gather Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d658\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhole Gulfs -- of Red, and Fleets -- of Red -- And Crews -- of solid Blood -- Did place upon the West -- Tonight -As 'twere specific Ground --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd They -- appointed Creatures -- In Authorized Arrays -- Due -- promptly -- as a Drama -- That bows -- and disappears -- 659\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat first Day, when you praised Me, Sweet, And said that I was strong -- And could be mighty, if I liked -- That Day -- the Days among --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGlows Central -- like a Jewel Between Diverging Golds -- The Minor One -- that gleamed behind -- And Vaster -- of the World's.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d660\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis good -- the looking back on Grief -- To re-endure a Day -- We thought the Mighty Funeral -- Of All Conceived Joy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo recollect how Busy Grass Did meddle -- one by one -- Till all the Grief with Summer -- waved And none could see the stone.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd though the Woe you have Today Be larger -- As the Sea Exceeds its Unremembered Drop -- They're Water -- equally --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d661\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould I but ride indefinite As doth the Meadow Bee And visit only where I liked And No one visit me\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd flirt all Day with Buttercups And marry whom I may And dwell a little everywhere Or better, run away\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith no Police to follow Or chase Him if He do Till He should jump Peninsulas To get away from me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI said "But just to be a Bee" Upon a Raft of Air And row in Nowhere all Day long And anchor "off the Bar"\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat Liberty! So Captives deem Who tight in Dungeons are. 662\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEmbarrassment of one another And God Is Revelation's limit, Aloud Is nothing that is chief, But still, Divinity dwells under a seal.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d663\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAgain -- his voice is at the door -- I feel the old Degree -- I hear him ask the servant For such an one -- as me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI take a flower -- as I go -- My face to justify -- He never saw me -- in this life -- I might surprise his eye!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cross the Hall with mingled steps -- I -- silent -- pass the door -- I look on all this world contains -- Just his face -- nothing more!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe talk in careless -- and it toss -- A kind of plummet strain -- Each -- sounding -- shyly -- Just -- how -- deep -- The other's one -- had been --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe walk -- I leave my Dog -- at home -- A tender -- thoughtful Moon -- Goes with us -- just a little way -- And -- then -- we are alone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAlone -- if Angels are "alone" -- First time they try the sky! Alone -- if those "veiled faces" -- be -We cannot count -- on High!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'd give -- to live that hour -- again -- The purple -- in my Vein -- But He must count the drops -- himself -- My price for every stain!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d664\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf all the Souls that stand create -- I have elected -- One -- When Sense from Spirit -- files away -- And Subterfuge -- is done -- When that which is -- and that which was -- Apart -- intrinsic -- stand -- And this brief Drama in the flesh -- Is shifted -- like a Sand - When Figures show their royal Front -- And Mists -- are carved away, Behold the Atom -- I preferred -- To all the lists of Clay!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d665 Dropped into the Ether Acre -- Wearing the Sod Gown -- Bonnet of Everlasting Laces -- Brooch -- frozen on --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHorses of Blonde -- and Coach of Silver -- Baggage a strapped Pearl -- Journey of Down -- and Whip of Diamond -- Riding to meet the Earl --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d666\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAh, Teneriffe! Retreating Mountain! Purples of Ages -- pause for you -- Sunset -- reviews her Sapphire Regiment -- Day -- drops you her Red Adieu!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStill -- Clad in your Mail of ices -- Thigh of Granite -- and thew -- of Steel -- Heedless -- alike -- of pomp -- or parting\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAh, Teneriffe! I'm kneeling -- still -- 667\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBloom upon the Mountain -- stated -Blameless of a Name -- Efflorescence of a Sunset -- Reproduced -- the same --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSeed, had I, my Purple Sowing Should endow the Day -- Not a Topic of a Twilight -- Show itself away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho for tilling -- to the Mountain Come, and disappear - Whose be Her Renown, or fading, Witness, is not here --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhile I state -- the Solemn Petals, Far as North -- and East, Far as South and West -- expanding -- Culminate -- in Rest --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd the Mountain to the Evening Fit His Countenance -- Indicating, by no Muscle -- The Experience --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d668\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Nature" is what we see -- The Hill -- the Afternoon -- Squirrel -- Eclipse -- the Bumble bee -- Nay -- Nature is Heaven -- Nature is what we hear -- The Bobolink -- the Sea -- Thunder -- the Cricket - Nay -- Nature is Harmony -- Nature is what we know -- Yet have no art to say -- So impotent Our Wisdom is To her Simplicity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d669\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Romance sold unto Could so enthrall a Man As the perusal of His Individual One -- 'Tis Fiction's -- When 'tis small enough To Credit -- 'Tisn't true!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d670\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne need not be a Chamber -- to be Haunted -- One need not be a House -- The Brain has Corridors -- surpassing Material Place --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFar safer, of a Midnight Meeting External Ghost Than its interior Confronting -- That Cooler Host.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFar safer, through an Abbey gallop, The Stones a'chase -- Than Unarmed, one's a'self encounter -- In lonesome Place --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOurself behind ourself, concealed -Should startle most -- Assassin hid in our Apartment Be Horror's least.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Body -- borrows a Revolver -- He bolts the Door -- O'erlooking a superior spectre -- Or More --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d671\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe dwelleth in the Ground -- Where Daffodils -- abide -- Her Maker -- Her Metropolis -- The Universe -- Her Maid --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo fetch Her Grace -- and Hue -- And Fairness -- and Renown -- The Firmament's -- To Pluck Her -- And fetch}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Her Thee -- be mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d672\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Future -- never spoke -- Nor will He -- like the Dumb -- Reveal by sign -- a syllable Of His Profound To Come -- But when the News be ripe -- Presents it -- in the Act -Forestalling Preparation -- Escape -- or Substitute -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIndifference to Him -- The Dower -- as the Doom -- His Office -- but to execute Fate's -- Telegram -- to Him --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d673\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Love a Life can show Below Is but a filament, I know, Of that diviner thing That faints upon the face of Noon -- And smites the Tinder in the Sun -- And hinders Gabriel's Wing --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis this -- in Music -- hints and sways -- And far abroad on Summer days -- Distils uncertain pain -- 'Tis this enamors in the East -- And tints the Transit in the West With harrowing Iodine -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis this -- invites -- appalls -- endows -- Flits -- glimmers -- proves -- dissolves -- Returns -- suggests -- convicts -- enchants -- Then -- flings in Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d674\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Soul that hath a Guest Doth seldom go abroad -- Diviner Crowd at Home -- Obliterate the need --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Courtesy forbid A Host's departure when Upon Himself be visiting The Emperor of Men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d675\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEssential Oils -- are wrung -- The Attar from the Rose Be not expressed by Suns -- alone -It is the gift of Screws --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe General Rose -- decay -- But this -- in Lady's Drawer Make Summer -- When the Lady lie In Ceaseless Rosemary --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d676\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLeast Bee that brew -- A Honey's Weight Content Her smallest fraction help The Amber Quantity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d677\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo be alive -- is Power -- Existence -- in itself -- Without a further function -- Omnipotence -- Enough --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo be alive -- and Will! 'Tis able as a God -- The Maker -- of Ourselves -- be what -- Such being Finitude!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d678\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWolfe demanded during dying "Which obtain the Day"? "General, the British" -- "Easy" Answered Wolfe "to die"\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMontcalm, his opposing Spirit Rendered with a smile "Sweet" said he "my own Surrender Liberty's beguile"\u13\'0d\u13\'0d679\u13\'0d\u13\'0dConscious am I in my Chamber, Of a shapeless friend - He doth not attest by Posture -- Nor Confirm -- by Word --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNeither Place -- need I present Him -- Fitter Courtesy Hospitable intuition Of His Company --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPresence -- is His furthest license -Neither He to Me Nor Myself to Him -- by Accent -- Forfeit Probity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWeariness of Him, were quainter Than Monotony Knew a Particle -- of Space's Vast Society\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNeither if He visit Other -- Do He dwell -- or Nay -- know I -- But Instinct esteem Him Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d680\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEach Life Converges to some Centre -- Expressed -- or still -- Exists in every Human Nature A Goal --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEmbodied scarcely to itself -- it may be -- Too fair For Credibility's presumption To mar --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAdored with caution -- as a Brittle Heaven -- To reach Were hopeless, as the Rainbow's Raiment To touch -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYet persevered toward -- sure -- for the Distance -- How high -- Unto the Saint's slow diligence -- The Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUngained -- it may be -- by a Life's low Venture -- But then -- Eternity enable the endeavoring Again.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d681\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSoil of Flint, if steady tilled -- Will refund by Hand -- Seed of Palm, by Libyan Sun Fructified in Sand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d682\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twould ease -- a Butterfly -- Elate -- a Bee -- Thou'rt neither -- Neither -- thy capacity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut, Blossom, were I, I would rather be Thy moment Than a Bee's Eternity -- Content of fading Is enough for me -- Fade I unto Divinity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Dying -- Lifetime -- Ample as the Eye -- Her least attention raise on me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d683\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Soul unto itself Is an imperial friend -- Or the most agonizing Spy -- An Enemy -- could send --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSecure against its own - No treason it can fear - Itself -- its Sovereign -- of itself The Soul should stand in Awe --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d684 Best Gains -- must have the Losses' Test -- To constitute them -- Gains -- 685 Not "Revelation" -- 'tis -- that waits, But our unfurnished eyes -- 686\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey say that "Time assuages" -- Time never did assuage -- An actual suffering strengthens As Sinews do, with age --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTime is a Test of Trouble -- But not a Remedy -- If such it prove, it prove too There was no Malady --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d687\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'll send the feather from my Hat! Who knows -- but at the sight of that My Sovereign will relent? As trinket -- worn by faded Child -- Confronting eyes long -- comforted -- Blisters the Adamant!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d688\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Speech" -- is a prank of Parliament -- "Tears" -- is a trick of the nerve -- But the Heart with the heaviest freight on -- Doesn't -- always -- move --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d689\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Zeroes -- taught us -- Phosphorous -- We learned to like the Fire By playing Glaciers -- when a Boy -- And Tinder -- guessed -- by power Of Opposite -- to balance Odd -- If White -- a Red -- must be! Paralysis -- our Primer -- dumb -- Unto Vitality!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d690 Victory comes late -- And is held low to freezing lips -- Too rapt with frost To take it - How sweet it would have tasted -- Just a Drop -- Was God so economical? His Table's spread too high for Us -- Unless We dine on tiptoe -- Crumbs -- fit such little mouths -- Cherries -- suit Robbins -- The Eagle's Golden Breakfast strangles -- Them -- God keep His Oath to Sparrows -- Who of little Love -- know how to starve --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d691\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWould you like summer? Taste of ours. Spices? Buy here! Ill! We have berries, for the parching! Weary! Furloughs of down! Perplexed! Estates of violet trouble ne'er looked on! Captive! We bring reprieve of roses! Fainting! Flasks of air! Even for Death, a fairy medicine. But, which is it, sir?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d692\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun kept setting -- setting -- still No Hue of Afternoon -- Upon the Village I perceived From House to House 'twas Noon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Dusk kept dropping -- dropping -- still No Dew upon the Grass -- But only on my Forehead stopped -And wandered in my Face --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Feet kept drowsing -- drowsing -- still My fingers were awake -- Yet why so little sound -- Myself Unto my Seeming -- make?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow well I knew the Light before -- I could see it now -- 'Tis Dying -- I am doing -- but I'm not afraid to know --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d693\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShells from the Coast mistaking -- I cherished them for All -- Happening in After Ages To entertain a Pearl --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWherefore so late -- I murmured -- My need of Thee -- be done -- Therefore -- the Pearl responded -My Period begin\u13\'0d\u13\'0d694\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heaven vests for Each In that small Deity It craved the grace to worship Some bashful Summer's Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHalf shrinking from the Glory It importuned to see Till these faint Tabernacles drop In full Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow imminent the Venture -- As one should sue a Star -- For His mean sake to leave the Row And entertain Despair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Clemency so common -- We almost cease to fear -- Enabling the minutest -- And furthest -- to adore -- 695\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs if the Sea should part And show a further Sea -- And that -- a further -- and the Three But a presumption be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Periods of Seas -- Unvisited of Shores -- Themselves the Verge of Seas to be -- Eternity -- is Those --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d696\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir Height in Heaven comforts not -- Their Glory -- nought to me -- 'Twas best imperfect -- as it was -I'm finite -- I can't see -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe House of Supposition -- The Glimmering Frontier that Skirts the Acres of Perhaps -- To Me -- shows insecure --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wealth I had -- contented me -- If 'twas a meaner size - Then I had counted it until It pleased my narrow Eyes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBetter than larger values -- That show however true -- This timid life of Evidence Keeps pleading -- "I don't know."\u13\'0d\u13\'0d697\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could bring You Jewels -- had I a mind to -- But You have enough -- of those -- I could bring You Odors from St. Domingo -- Colors -- from Vera Cruz --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBerries of the Bahamas -- have I -- But this little Blaze Flickering to itself -- in the Meadow -- Suits Me -- more than those --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNever a Fellow matched this Topaz -And his Emerald Swing -- Dower itself -- for Bobadilo -- Better -- Could I bring?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d698\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLife -- is what we make of it -- Death -- we do not know -- Christ's acquaintance with Him Justify Him -- though --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe -- would trust no stranger -- Other -- could betray -- Just His own endorsement -- That -- sufficeth Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll the other Distance He hath traversed first -No New Mile remaineth -- Far as Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis sure foot preceding -Tender Pioneer -- Base must be the Coward Dare not venture -- now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d699\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Judge is like the Owl -- I've heard my Father tell -- And Owls do build in Oaks -- So here's an Amber Sill --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat slanted in my Path -- When going to the Barn -- And if it serve You for a House -- Itself is not in vain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAbout the price -- 'tis small -- I only ask a Tune At Midnight -- Let the Owl select His favorite Refrain.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 700-799\u13\'0d\u13\'0d700\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou've seen Balloons set -- Haven't You? So stately they ascend -- It is as Swans -- discarded You, For Duties Diamond --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir Liquid Feet go softly out Upon a Sea of Blonde -- They spurn the Air, as t'were too mean For Creatures so renowned --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir Ribbons just beyond the eye -- They struggle -- some -- for Breath -- And yet the Crowd applaud, below -- They would not encore -- Death --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Gilded Creature strains -- and spins -- Trips frantic in a Tree - Tears open her imperial Veins -- And tumbles in the Sea --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Crowd -- retire with an Oath -- The Dust in Streets -- go down -- And Clerks in Counting Rooms Observe -- "'Twas only a Balloon" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d701\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Thought went up my mind today -- That I have had before -- But did not finish -- some way back -- I could not fix the Year --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor where it went -- nor why it came The second time to me -- Nor definitely, what it was -- Have I the Art to say -- But somewhere -- in my Soul -- I know -- I've met the Thing before -- It just reminded me -- 'twas all -- And came my way no more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d702\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA first Mute Coming -- In the Stranger's House -- A first fair Going -- When the Bells rejoice -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA first Exchange -- of What hath mingled -- been -- For Lot -- exhibited to Faith -- alone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d703\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOut of sight? What of that? See the Bird -- reach it! Curve by Curve -- Sweep by Sweep -- Round the Steep Air -- Danger! What is that to Her? Better 'tis to fail -- there - Than debate -- here --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBlue is Blue -- the}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
World through -- Amber -- Amber -- Dew -- Dew -- Seek -- Friend -- and see -- Heaven is shy of Earth -- that's all -Bashful Heaven -- thy Lovers small -- Hide -- too -- from thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d704\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo matter -- now -- Sweet -- But when I'm Earl -- Won't you wish you'd spoken To that dull Girl?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTrivial a Word -- just -- Trivial -- a Smile -- But won't you wish you'd spared one When I'm Earl?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI shan't need it -- then -Crests -- will do -- Eagles on my Buckles -- On my Belt -- too --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dErmine -- my familiar Gown -- Say -- Sweet -- then Won't you wish you'd smiled -- just -Me upon?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d705\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuspense -- is Hostiler than Death -- Death -- tho'soever Broad, Is Just Death, and cannot increase -Suspense -- does not conclude --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut perishes -- to live anew -- But just anew to die -- Annihilation -- plated fresh With Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d706\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLife, and Death, and Giants -- Such as These -- are still -- Minor -- Apparatus -- Hopper of the Mill -- Beetle at the Candle -- Or a Fife's Fame -- Maintain -- by Accident that they proclaim -- 707\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Grace -- Myself -- might not obtain -- Confer upon My flower -- Refracted but a Countenance -- For I -- inhabit Her --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d708\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI sometimes drop it, for a Quick -- The Thought to be alive -- Anonymous Delight to know -- And Madder -- to conceive --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dConsoles a Woe so monstrous That did it tear all Day, Without an instant's Respite -- 'Twould look too far -- to Die --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d709\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPublication -- is the Auction Of the Mind of Man -- Poverty -- be justifying For so foul a thing\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPossibly -- but We -- would rather From Our Garret go White -- Unto the White Creator -- Than invest -- Our Snow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThought belong to Him who gave it -- Then -- to Him Who bear Its Corporeal illustration -- Sell The Royal Air --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn the Parcel -- Be the Merchant Of the Heavenly Grace -- But reduce no Human Spirit To Disgrace of Price --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d710\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sunrise runs for Both -- The East -- Her Purple Troth Keeps with the Hill -- The Noon unwinds Her Blue Till One Breadth cover Two -- Remotest -- still --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor does the Night forget A Lamp for Each -- to set -- Wicks wide away -- The North -- Her blazing Sign Erects in Iodine -- Till Both -- can see --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Midnight's Dusky Arms Clasp Hemispheres, and Homes And so Upon Her Bosom -- One -- And One upon Her Hem -- Both lie --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d711\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStrong Draughts of Their Refreshing Minds To drink -- enables Mine Through Desert or the Wilderness As bore it Sealed Wine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo go elastic -- Or as One The Camel's trait -- attained -- How powerful the Stimulus Of an Hermetic Mind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d712 Because I could not stop for Death -- He kindly stopped for me -- The Carriage held but just Ourselves -- And Immortality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe slowly drove -- He knew no haste And I had put away My labor and my leisure too, For His Civility --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe passed the School, where Children strove At Recess -- in the Ring -- We passed the Fields of Gazing Grain -- We passed the Setting Sun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr rather -- He passed Us -- The Dews drew quivering and chill -- For only Gossamer, my Gown -- My Tippet -- only Tulle --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe paused before a House that seemed A Swelling of the Ground -- The Roof was scarcely visible -- The Cornice -- in the Ground --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSince then -- 'tis Centuries -- and yet Feels shorter than the Day I first surmised the Horses' Heads Were toward Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d713\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFame of Myself, to justify, All other Plaudit be Superfluous -- An Incense Beyond Necessity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFame of Myself to lack -- Although My Name be else Supreme -- This were an Honor honorless -- A futile Diadem -- 714\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRest at Night The Sun from shining, Nature -- and some Men -- Rest at Noon -- some Men -- While Nature And the Sun -- go on --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d715\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe World -- feels Dusty When We stop to Die -- We want the Dew -- then -- Honors -- taste dry --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFlags -- vex a Dying face -- But the least Fan Stirred by a friend's Hand -- Cools -- like the Rain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMine be the Ministry When they Thirst comes -- And Hybla Balms -- Dews of Thessaly, to fetch --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d716\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Day undressed -- Herself -- Her Garter -- was of Gold -- Her Petticoat -- of Purple plain -- Her Dimities -- as old\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExactly -- as the World - And yet the newest Star -- Enrolled upon the Hemisphere Be wrinkled -- much as Her -- Too near to God -- to pray -- Too near to Heaven -- to fear -- The Lady of the Occident Retired without a care -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Candle so expire The flickering be seen On Ball of Mast in Bosporus -- And Dome -- and Window Pane --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d717\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Beggar Lad -- dies early -- It's Somewhat in the Cold -- And Somewhat in the Trudging feet -And haply, in the World --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Cruel -- smiling -- bowing World -- That took its Cambric Way -- Nor heard the timid cry for "Bread" -- "Sweet Lady -- Charity" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAmong Redeemed Children If Trudging feet may stand The Barefoot time forgotten -- so -- The Sleet -- the bitter Wind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Childish Hands that teased for Pence Lifted adoring -- them -- To Him whom never Ragged -- Coat Did supplicate in vain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d718\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI meant to find Her when I came -- Death -- had the same design -- But the Success -- was His -- it seems -- And the Surrender -- Mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI meant to tell Her how I longed For just this single time - But Death had told Her so the first -And she had past, with Him --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo wander -- now -- is my Repose -- To rest -- To rest would be A privilege of Hurricane To Memory -- and Me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d719\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA South Wind -- has a pathos Of individual Voice -- As One detect on Landings An Emigrant's address.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Hint of Ports and Peoples -- And much not understood -- The fairer -- for the farness -- And for the foreignhood.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d720\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Prisoner be -- Where Liberty -- Himself -- abide with Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d721\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBehind Me -- dips Eternity -- Before Me -- Immortality -- Myself -- the Term between -- Death but the Drift of Eastern Gray, Dissolving into Dawn away, Before the West begin --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Kingdoms -- afterward -- they say --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn perfect -- pauseless Monarchy -- Whose Prince -- is Son of None -- Himself -- His Dateless Dynasty -- Himself -- Himself diversify -- In Duplicate divine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Miracle before Me -- then -- 'Tis Miracle behind -- between -- A Crescent in the Sea -- With Midnight to the North of Her -- And Midnight to the South of Her -- And Maelstrom -- in the Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d722\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSweet Mountains -- Ye tell Me no lie -- Never deny Me -- Never fly -- Those same unvarying Eyes Turn on Me -- when I fail -- or feign, Or take the Royal names in vain -- Their far -- slow -- Violet Gaze --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Strong Madonnas -- Cherish still -- The Wayward Nun -- beneath the Hill -- Whose service -- is to You -- Her latest Worship -- When the Day Fades from the Firmament away -- To lift Her Brows on You --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d723\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt tossed -- and tossed - A little Brig I knew -- o'ertook by Blast -- It spun -- and spun -- And groped delirious, for Morn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt slipped -- and slipped -- As One that drunken -- stept -- Its white foot tripped -- Then dropped from sight --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAh, Brig -- Good Night To Crew and You -- The Ocean's Heart too smooth -- too Blue -- To break for You --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d724\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's easy to invent a Life -- God does it -- every Day -- Creation -- but the Gambol Of His Authority --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt's easy to efface it -- The thrifty Deity Could scarce afford Eternity To Spontaneity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Perished Patterns murmur -- But His Perturbless Plan Proceed -- inserting Here -- a Sun -- There -- leaving out a Man --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d725\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhere Thou art -- that -- is Home -- Cashmere -- or Calvary -- the same -- Degree -- or Shame -- I scarce esteem Location's Name -- So I may Come --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat Thou dost -- is Delight -- Bondage as Play -- be sweet -- Imprisonment -- Content -- And Sentence -- Sacrament -- Just We two -- meet --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhere Thou art not -- is Woe -- Tho' Bands of Spices -- row -- What Thou dost not -- Despair -- Tho' Gabriel -- praise me -- Sire -- 726\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe thirst at first -- 'tis Nature's Act -And later -- when we die -- A little Water supplicate -- Of fingers going by --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt intimates the finer want -- Whose adequate supply Is that Great Water in the West -- Termed Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d727\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPrecious to Me -- She still shall be -Though She forget the name I bear -- The fashion of the Gown I wear -- The very Color of My Hair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo like the Meadows -- now -- I dared to show a Tress of Theirs If haply -- She might not despise A Buttercup's Array --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI know the Whole -- obscures the Part -- The fraction -- that appeased the Heart Till Number's Empery -- Remembered -- as the Millner's flower\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Summer's Everlasting Dower -- Confronts the dazzled Bee. 728\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet Us play Yesterday -- I -- the Girl at school -- You -- and Eternity -- the Untold Tale -- Easing my famine At my Lexicon -- Logarithm -- had I -- for Drink -- 'Twas a dry Wine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSomewhat different -- must be -- Dreams tint the Sleep -- Cunning Reds of Morning Make the Blind -- leap --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStill at the Egg-life -- Chafing the Shell -- When you troubled the Ellipse -- And the Bird fell --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dManacles be dim -- they say -- To the new Free -- Liberty -- Commoner -- Never could -- to me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas my last gratitude When I slept -- at night -'Twas the first Miracle Let in -- with Light --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCan the Lark resume the Shell -- Easier -- for the Sky -- Wouldn't Bonds hurt more Than Yesterday?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWouldn't Dungeons sorer frate On the Man -- free -- Just long enough to taste -- Then -- doomed new --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGod of the Manacle As of the Free -- Take not my Liberty Away from Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d729\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAlter! When the Hills do -- Falter! When the Sun Question if His Glory Be the Perfect One --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSurfeit! When the Daffodil Doth of the Dew -- Even as Herself -- Sir -I will -- of You --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d730 Defrauded I a Butterfly -- The lawful Heir -- for Thee -- 731\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"I want" -- it pleaded -- All its life -- I want -- was chief it said When Skill entreated it -- the last -- And when so newly dead --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could not deem it late -- to hear That single -- steadfast sigh -- The lips had placed as with a "Please" Toward Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d732\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe rose to His Requirement -- dropt The Playthings of Her Life To take the honorable Work}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Of Woman, and of Wife --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf ought She missed in Her new Day, Of Amplitude, or Awe -- Or first Prospective -- Or the Gold In using, wear away, It lay unmentioned -- as the Sea Develop Pearl, and Weed, But only to Himself -- be known The Fathoms they abide --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d733\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Spirit is the Conscious Ear. We actually Hear When We inspect -- that's audible -That is admitted -- Here --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor other Services -- as Sound -- There hangs a smaller Ear Outside the Castle -- that Contain -- The other -- only -- Hear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d734\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf He were living -- dare I ask -- And how if He be dead -- And so around the Words I went -- Of meeting them -- afraid --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI hinted Changes -- Lapse of Time -- The Surfaces of Years - I touched with Caution -- lest they crack -- And show me to my fears --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dReverted to adjoining Lives -- Adroitly turning out Wherever I suspected Graves -- 'Twas prudenter -- I thought --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd He -- I pushed -- with sudden force -- In face of the Suspense -- "Was buried" -- "Buried"! "He!" My Life just holds the Trench --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d735 Upon Concluded Lives There's nothing cooler falls -- Than Life's sweet Calculations -- The mixing Bells and Palls --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMake Lacerating Tune -To Ears the Dying Side -- 'Tis Coronal -- and Funeral -- Saluting -- in the Road --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d736\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHave any like Myself Investigating March, New Houses on the Hill descried -- And possibly a Church --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat were not, We are sure -- As lately as the Snow -- And are Today -- if We exist -- Though how may this be so?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHave any like Myself Conjectured Who may be The Occupants of the Adobes -- So easy to the Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twould seem that God should be The nearest Neighbor to -- And Heaven -- a convenient Grace For Show, or Company --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHave any like Myself Preserved the Charm secure By shunning carefully the Place All Seasons of the Year,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExcepting March -- 'Tis then My Villages be seen -- And possibly a Steeple -- Not afterward -- by Men -- The Moon was but a Chin of Gold A Night or two ago -- And now she turns Her perfect Face Upon the World below --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Forehead is of Amplest Blonde -Her Cheek -- a Beryl hewn -- Her Eye unto the Summer Dew The likest I have known --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Lips of Amber never part -- But what must be the smile Upon Her Friend she could confer Were such Her Silver Will --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd what a privilege to be But the remotest Star -- For Certainty She take Her Way Beside Your Palace Door --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Bonnet is the Firmament -- The Universe -- Her Shoe -- The Stars -- the Trinkets at Her Belt -- Her Dimities -- of Blue --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d738\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou said that I "was Great" -- one Day -- Then "Great" it be -- if that please Thee -- Or Small -- or any size at all -- Nay -- I'm the size suit Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTall -- like the Stag -- would that? Or lower -- like the Wren -- Or other heights of Other Ones I've seen?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTell which -- it's dull to guess -- And I must be Rhinoceros Or Mouse -- At once -- for Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo say -- if Queen it be -- Or Page -- please Thee - I'm that -- or nought -- Or other thing -- if other thing there be -- With just this Stipulus - I suit Thee -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d739\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI many times thought Peace had come When Peace was far away -- As Wrecked Men -- deem they sight the Land -- At Centre of the Sea --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd struggle slacker -- but to prove As hopelessly as I -- How many the fictitious Shores -- Before the Harbor be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d740\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou taught me Waiting with Myself -- Appointment strictly kept -- You taught me fortitude of Fate -- This -- also -- I have learnt --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn Altitude of Death, that could No bitterer debar Than Life -- had done -- before it -- Yet -- there is a Science more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heaven you know -- to understand That you be not ashamed Of Me -- in Christ's bright Audience Upon the further Hand -- Drama's Vitallest Expression is the Common Day That arise and set about Us -- Other Tragedy\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerish in the Recitation - This -- the best enact When the Audience is scattered And the Boxes shut --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Hamlet" to Himself were Hamlet -- Had not Shakespeare wrote -- Though the "Romeo" left no Record Of his Juliet,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt were infinite enacted In the Human Heart -- Only Theatre recorded Owner cannot shut --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d742\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFour Trees -- upon a solitary Acre -- Without Design Or Order, or Apparent Action -- Maintain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun -- upon a Morning meets them -- The Wind -- No nearer Neighbor -- have they -- But God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Acre gives them -- Place -- They -- Him -- Attention of Passer by -- Of Shadow, or of Squirrel, haply -- Or Boy -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat Deed is Theirs unto the General Nature -- What Plan They severally -- retard -- or further -- Unknown -- The Birds reported from the South -- A News express to Me -- A spicy Charge, My little Posts -- But I am deaf -- Today --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Flowers -- appealed -- a timid Throng -- I reinforced the Door -- Go blossom for the Bees -- I said - And trouble Me -- no More --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Summer Grace, for Notice strove -- Remote -- Her best Array -- The Heart -- to stimulate the Eye Refused too utterly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt length, a Mourner, like Myself, She drew away austere -- Her frosts to ponder -- then it was I recollected Her --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe suffered Me, for I had mourned -- I offered Her no word -- My Witness -- was the Crape I bore -- Her -- Witness -- was Her Dead --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThenceforward -- We -- together dwelt -- I never questioned Her -- Our Contract A Wiser Sympathy\u13\'0d\u13\'0d744\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRemorse -- is Memory -- awake -- Her Parties all astir -- A Presence of Departed Acts -- At window -- and at Door --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIts Past -- set down before the Soul And lighted with a Match -- Perusal -- to facilitate -And help Belief to stretch --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRemorse is cureless -- the Disease Not even God -- can heal -- For 'tis His institution -- and The Adequate of Hell --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d745\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRenunciation -- is a piercing Virtue -The letting go A Presence -- for an Expectation -- Not now -- The putting out of Eyes -- Just Sunrise -- Lest Day -- Day's Great Progenitor -- Outvie Renunciation -- is the Choosing Against itself -- Itself to justify Unto itself - When larger function -- Make that appear -- Smaller -- that Covered Vision -- Here --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d746\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNever for Society He shall seek in vain -- Who His own acquaintance Cultivate -- Of Men Wiser Men may weary -- But the Man within\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNever knew Satiety -- Better entertain Than could Border Ballad -- Or Biscayan Hymn -- Neither introduction Need You -- unto Him --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d747\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt dropped so low -- in my Regard -- I heard it hit the Ground -- And go to pieces on the Stones At bottom of my Mind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYet blamed the Fate that flung it -- less Than I denounced Myself, For entertaining Plated Wares Upon my Silver Shelf --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d748\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAutumn -- overlooked my Knitting -- Dyes -- said He -- have I -- Could disparage a Flamingo -- Show Me them -- said I --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCochineal -- I chose -- for deeming It resemble Thee -- And the little Border -- Dusker -- For resembling Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d749\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll but Death, can be Adjusted -- Dynasties repaired -- Systems -- settled in their Sockets -Citadels -- dissolved --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWastes of Lives -- resown with Colors By Succeeding Springs - Death -- unto itself -- Exception -- Is exempt from Change --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d750\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGrowth of Man -- like Growth of Nature -- Gravitates within -- Atmosphere, and Sun endorse it -Bit it stir -- alone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEach -- its difficult Ideal Must achieve -- Itself - Through the solitary prowess Of a Silent Life --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEffort -- is the sole condition -- Patience of Itself -- Patience of opposing forces -- And intact Belief --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLooking on -- is the Department Of its Audience -- But Transaction -- is assisted By no Countenance --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d751\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Worthiness is all my Doubt -- His Merit -- all my fear - Contrasting which, my quality Do lowlier -- appear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLest I should insufficient prove For His beloved Need -- The Chiefest Apprehension Upon my thronging Mind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis true -- that Deity to stoop Inherently incline -- For nothing higher than Itself Itself can rest upon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo I -- the undivine abode Of His Elect Content -- Conform my Soul -- as 'twere a Church, Unto Her Sacrament --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d752\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo the Eyes accost -- and sunder In an Audience -- Stamped -- occasionally -- forever -- So may Countenance\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEntertain -- without addressing Countenance of One In a Neighboring Horizon -- Gone -- as soon as known --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d753\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Soul -- accused me -- And I quailed -- As Tongue of Diamond had reviled All else accused me -- and I smiled -- My Soul -- that Morning -- was My friend --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer favor -- is the best Disdain Toward Artifice of Time -- or Men -- But Her Disdain -- 'twere lighter bear A finger of Enamelled Fire --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d754\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Life had stood -- a Loaded Gun -- In Corners -- till a Day The Owner passed -- identified -- And carried Me away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd now We roam in Sovereign Woods -- And now We hunt the Doe -- And every time I speak for Him -- The Mountains straight reply --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd do I smile, such cordial light Upon the Valley glow -- It is as a Vesuvian face Had let its pleasure through --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when at Night -- Our good Day done -- I guard My Master's Head -- 'Tis better than the Eider-Duck's Deep Pillow -- to have shared --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo foe of His -- I'm deadly foe -- None stir the second time -- On whom I lay a Yellow Eye -- Or an emphatic Thumb --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThough I than He -- may longer live He longer must -- than I -- For I have but the power to kill, Without -- the power to die --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d755\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Bobolink -- reverse His Singing When the only Tree Ever He minded occupying By the Farmer be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dClove to the Root -- His Spacious Future -- Best Horizon -- gone -- Whose Music be His Only Anodyne -- Brave Bobolink --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d756\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne Blessing had I than the rest So larger to my Eyes That I stopped gauging -- satisfied -- For this enchanted size --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt was the limit of my Dream -- The focus of my Prayer -- A perfect -- paralyzing Bliss -- Contented as Despair -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI knew no more of Want -- or Cold -- Phantasms both become For this new Value in the Soul -- Supremest Earthly Sum --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heaven below the Heaven above -- Obscured with ruddier Blue -- Life's Latitudes leant over -- full -- The Judgment perished -- too --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhy Bliss so scantily}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
disburse -- Why Paradise defer -- Why Floods be served to Us -- in Bowls -- I speculate no more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d757\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Mountains -- grow unnoticed -- Their Purple figures rise Without attempt -- Exhaustion -- Assistance -- or Applause --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn Their Eternal Faces The Sun -- with just delight Looks long -- and last -- and golden -For fellowship -- at night --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d758\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese -- saw Visions -Latch them softly -- These -- held Dimples -- Smooth them slow -- This -- addressed departing accents -- Quick -- Sweet Mouth -- to miss thee so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis -- We stroked -- Unnumbered Satin -- These -- we held among our own -- Fingers of the Slim Aurora -- Not so arrogant -- this Noon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese -- adjust -- that ran to meet us -- Pearl -- for Stocking -- Pearl for Shoe -- Paradise -- the only Palace Fit for Her reception -- now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d759\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe fought like those Who've nought to lose -- Bestowed Himself to Balls As One who for a further Life Had not a further Use --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dInvited Death -- with bold attempt -- But Death was Coy of Him As Other Men, were Coy of Death -- To Him -- to live -- was Doom --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Comrades, shifted like the Flakes When Gusts reverse the Snow -- But He -- was left alive Because Of Greediness to die --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d760\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMost she touched me by her muteness -- Most she won me by the way She presented her small figure -- Plea itself -- for Charity -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWere a Crumb my whole possession -- Were there famine in the land -- Were it my resource from starving -- Could I such a plea withstand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot upon her knee to thank me Sank this Beggar from the Sky -- But the Crumb partook -- departed -- And returned On High --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI supposed -- when sudden Such a Praise began 'Twas as Space sat singing To herself -- and men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas the Winged Beggar -- Afterward I learned To her Benefactor Making Gratitude\u13\'0d\u13\'0d761\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrom Blank to Blank -- A Threadless Way I pushed Mechanic feet - To stop -- or perish -- or advance -- Alike indifferent --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf end I gained It ends beyond Indefinite disclosed -- I shut my eyes -- and groped as well 'Twas lighter -- to be Blind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d762\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Whole of it came not at once -'Twas Murder by degrees -- A Thrust -- and then for Life a chance -- The Bliss to cauterize -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Cat reprieves the Mouse She eases from her teeth Just long enough for Hope to tease -Then mashes it to death --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Life's award -- to die -- Contenteder if once -- Than dying half -- then rallying For consciouser Eclipse --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d763\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe told a homely tale And spotted it with tears -- Upon his infant face was set The Cicatrice of years --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll crumpled was the cheek No other kiss had known Than flake of snow, divided with The Redbreast of the Barn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf Mother -- in the Grave -- Or Father -- on the Sea -- Or Father in the Firmament -- Or Brethren, had he --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf Commonwealth below, Or Commonwealth above Have missed a Barefoot Citizen -- I've ransomed it -- alive --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d764 Presentiment -- is that long Shadow -- on the Lawn -- Indicatives that Suns go down -- The Notice to the startled Grass That Darkness -- is about to pass --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d765 You constituted Time -- I deemed Eternity A Revelation of Yourself -- 'Twas therefore Deity\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Absolute -- removed The Relative away -- That I unto Himself adjust My slow idolatry --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d766\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Faith is larger than the Hills -- So when the Hills decay -- My Faith must take the Purple Wheel To show the Sun the way --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis first He steps upon the Vane -- And then -- upon the Hill -- And then abroad the World He go To do His Golden Will -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd if His Yellow feet should miss - The Bird would not arise -- The Flowers would slumber on their Stems -- No Bells have Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow dare I, therefore, stint a faith On which so vast depends -- Lest Firmament should fail for me -- The Rivet in the Bands\u13\'0d\u13\'0d767\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo offer brave assistance To Lives that stand alone -- When One has failed to stop them -- Is Human -- but Divine\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo lend an Ample Sinew Unto a Nameless Man -- Whose Homely Benediction No other -- stopped to earn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d768\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen I hoped, I recollect Just the place I stood -At a Window facing West -- Roughest Air -- was good --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot a Sleet could bite me -- Not a frost could cool - Hope it was that kept me warm -- Not Merino shawl --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen I feared -- I recollect Just the Day it was -- Worlds were lying out to Sun -- Yet how Nature froze -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIcicles upon my soul Prickled Blue and Cool -- Bird went praising everywhere -- Only Me -- was still --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd the Day that I despaired -- This -- if I forget Nature will -- that it be Night After Sun has set -- Darkness intersect her face -- And put out her eye -- Nature hesitate -- before Memory and I --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d769\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne and One -- are One -- Two -- be finished using -- Well enough for Schools -- But for Minor Choosing --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLife -- just -- or Death -- Or the Everlasting -- More -- would be too vast For the Soul's Comprising --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d770\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI lived on Dread -- To Those who know The Stimulus there is In Danger -- Other impetus Is numb -- and Vitalless --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs 'twere a Spur -- upon the Soul -- A Fear will urge it where To go without the Sceptre's aid Were Challenging Despair.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d771\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNone can experience sting Who Bounty -- have not known -- The fact of Famine -- could not be Except for Fact of Corn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWant -- is a meagre Art Acquired by Reverse -- The Poverty that was not Wealth -- Cannot be Indigence.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d772\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe hallowing of Pain Like hallowing of Heaven, Obtains at a corporeal cost -- The Summit is not given To Him who strives severe At middle of the Hill -- But He who has achieved the Top -- All -- is the price of All -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d773\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeprived of other Banquet, I entertained Myself -- At first -- a scant nutrition -- An insufficient Loaf --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut grown by slender addings To so esteemed a size 'Tis sumptuous enough for me -- And almost to suffice\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Robin's famine able -- Red Pilgrim, He and I -- A Berry from our table Reserve -- for charity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d774\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt is a lonesome Glee -- Yet sanctifies the Mind -- With fair association -- Afar upon the Wind\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Bird to overhear Delight without a Cause -- Arrestless as invisible -A matter of the Skies.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d775\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf Blame be my side -- forfeit Me -- But doom me not to forfeit Thee -- To forfeit Thee? The very name Is sentence from Belief -- and House -- 776\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Color of a Queen, is this -- The Color of a Sun At setting -- this and Amber -- Beryl -- and this, at Noon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when at night -- Auroran widths Fling suddenly on men -- 'Tis this -- and Witchcraft -- nature keeps A Rank -- for Iodine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d777\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Loneliness One dare not sound -- And would as soon surmise As in its Grave go plumbing To ascertain the size --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Loneliness whose worst alarm Is lest itself should see - And perish from before itself For just a scrutiny --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Horror not to be surveyed -- But skirted in the Dark -- With Consciousness suspended -- And Being under Lock -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI fear me this -- is Loneliness -- The Maker of the soul Its Caverns and its Corridors Illuminate -- or seal --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d778\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis that would greet -- an hour ago -- Is quaintest Distance -- now -- Had it a Guest from Paradise -- Nor glow, would it, nor bow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad it a notice from the Noon Nor beam would it nor warm -- Match me the Silver Reticence -- Match me the Solid Calm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d779\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Service without Hope -- Is tenderest, I think -- Because 'tis unsustained By stint -- Rewarded Work --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHas impetus of Gain -- And impetus of Goal -- There is no Diligence like that That knows not an Until --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d780\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Truth -- is stirless - Other force -- may be presumed to move -- This -- then -- is best for confidence -When oldest Cedars swerve --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Oaks untwist their fists -- And Mountains -- feeble -- lean -- How excellent a Body, that Stands without a Bone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow vigorous a Force That holds without a Prop -- Truth stays Herself -- and every man That trusts Her -- boldly up -- To wait an Hour -- is long -- If Love be just beyond -- To wait Eternity -- is short -- If Love reward the end --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d782\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is an arid Pleasure -- As different from Joy -- As Frost is different from Dew -- Like element -- are they --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYet one -- rejoices Flowers -- And one -- the Flowers abhor -- The finest Honey -- curdled -- Is worthless -- to the Bee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d783\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Birds begun at Four o'clock -- Their period for Dawn -- A Music numerous as space -- But neighboring as Noon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could not count their Force -- Their Voices did expend As Brook by Brook bestows itself To multiply the Pond.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir Witnesses were not -- Except occasional man -- In homely industry arrayed -- To overtake the Morn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor was it for applause -That I could ascertain -But independent Ecstasy Of Deity and Men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy Six, the Flood had done -- No Tumult there had been Of Dressing, or Departure -- And yet the Band was gone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun engrossed the East -- The Day controlled the World -- The Miracle that introduced Forgotten, as fulfilled.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d784\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBereaved of all, I went abroad -- No less bereaved was I Upon a New Peninsula - The Grave preceded me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dObtained my Lodgings, ere myself -- And when I sought my Bed -- The Grave it was reposed upon The Pillow for my Head --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI waked to find it first awake -- I rose -- It followed me -- I tried to drop it in the Crowd -- To lose it in the Sea --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn Cups of artificial Drowse To steep its shape away -- The Grave -- was finished -- but the Spade Remained in Memory --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d785\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey have a little Odor -- that to me Is metre -- nay -- 'tis melody -- And spiciest at fading -- indicate -- A Habit -- of a Laureate -- Severer Service of myself I -- hastened to demand To fill the awful Vacuum Your life had left behind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI worried Nature with my Wheels When Hers had ceased to run -- When she had put away Her Work My own had just begun.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI strove to weary Brain and Bone -- To harass to fatigue The glittering Retinue of nerves -- Vitality to clog\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo some dull comfort Those obtain Who put a Head away They knew the Hair to -- And forget the color of the Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAffliction would not be appeased -The Darkness braced as firm As}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
all my stratagem had been The Midnight to confirm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Drug for Consciousness -- can be -- Alternative to die Is Nature's only Pharmacy For Being's Malady --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d787\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuch is the Force of Happiness -- The Least -- can lift a Ton Assisted by its stimulus -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho Misery -- sustain - No Sinew can afford -- The Cargo of Themselves -- Too infinite for Consciousness' Slow capabilities. Joy to have merited the Pain -- To merit the Release -- Joy to have perished every step -- To Compass Paradise -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPardon -- to look upon thy face -- With these old fashioned Eyes -- Better than new -- could be -- for that -- Though bought in Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause they looked on thee before -- And thou hast looked on them -- Prove Me -- My Hazel Witnesses The features are the same --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo fleet thou wert, when present -So infinite -- when gone -- An Orient's Apparition -- Remanded of the Morn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Height I recollect - 'Twas even with the Hills -- The Depth upon my Soul was notched -- As Floods -- on Whites of Wheels -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo Haunt -- till Time have dropped His last Decade away, And Haunting actualize -- to last At least -- Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d789\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn a Columnar Self -- How ample to rely In Tumult -- or Extremity -- How good the Certainty\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Lever cannot pry -- And Wedge cannot divide Conviction -- That Granitic Base -- Though None be on our Side --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuffice Us -- for a Crowd -- Ourself -- and Rectitude -- And that Assembly -- not far off From furthest Spirit -- God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d790\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNature -- the Gentlest Mother is, Impatient of no Child -- The feeblest -- or the waywardest -- Her Admonition mild --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn Forest -- and the Hill -- By Traveller -- be heard -- Restraining Rampant Squirrel -- Or too impetuous Bird --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow fair Her Conversation -- A Summer Afternoon -- Her Household -- Her Assembly -- And when the Sung go down --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Voice among the Aisles Incite the timid prayer Of the minutest Cricket -The most unworthy Flower --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen all the Children sleep -- She turns as long away As will suffice to light Her lamps -- Then bending from the Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith infinite Affection - And infiniter Care -- Her Golden finger on Her lip -- Wills Silence -- Everywhere -- God gave a Loaf to every Bird -- But just a Crumb -- to Me -- I dare not eat it -- tho' I starve -- My poignant luxury --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo own it -- touch it -- Prove the feat -- that made the Pellet mine -- Too happy -- for my Sparrow's chance -- For Ampler Coveting --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt might be Famine -- all around -- I could not miss an Ear -- Such Plenty smiles upon my Board -- My Garner shows so fair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI wonder how the Rich -- may feel -- An Indiaman -- An Earl -- I deem that I -- with but a Crumb -- Am Sovereign of them all --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d792\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThrough the strait pass of suffering -The Martyrs -- even -- trod. Their feet -- upon Temptations -- Their faces -- upon God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA stately -- shriven -- Company -- Convulsion -- playing round -- Harmless -- as streaks of Meteor -- Upon a Planet's Bond --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir faith -- the everlasting troth -- Their Expectation -- fair -- The Needle -- to the North Degree -- Wades -- so -- thro' polar Air! Grief is a Mouse -- And chooses Wainscot in the Breast For His Shy House -- And baffles quest --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGrief is a Thief -- quick startled -- Pricks His Ear -- report to hear Of that Vast Dark -- That swept His Being -- back --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGrief is a Juggler -- boldest at the Play -- Lest if He flinch -- the eye that way Pounce on His Bruises -- One -- say -- or Three -- Grief is a Gourmand -- spare His luxury --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBest Grief is Tongueless -- before He'll tell -- Burn Him in the Public Square -- His Ashes -- will Possibly -- if they refuse -- How then know -- Since a Rack couldn't coax a syllable -- now.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d794\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Drop Fell on the Apple Tree -- Another -- on the Roof -- A Half a Dozen kissed the Eaves -- And made the Gables laugh --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA few went out to help the Brook That went to help the Sea -- Myself Conjectured were they Pearls -- What Necklace could be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Dust replaced, in Hoisted Roads -- The Birds jocoser sung - The Sunshine threw his Hat away -- The Bushes -- spangles flung --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Breezes brought dejected Lutes -- And bathed them in the Glee -- Then Orient showed a single Flag, And signed the Fete away -- Her final Summer was it -- And yet We guessed it not -- If tenderer industriousness Pervaded Her, We thought\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA further force of life Developed from within -- When Death lit all the shortness up It made the hurry plain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe wondered at our blindness When nothing was to see But Her Carrara Guide post -- At Our Stupidity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen duller than our dullness The Busy Darling lay -- So busy was she -- finishing -- So leisurely -- were We --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d796\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho Giants know, with lesser Men Are incomplete, and shy -- For Greatness, that is ill at ease In minor Company --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Smaller, could not be perturbed -- The Summer Gnat displays -- Unconscious that his single Fleet Do not comprise the skies --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d797\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy my Window have I for Scenery Just a Sea -- with a Stem -- If the Bird and the Farmer -- deem it a "Pine" -- The Opinion will serve -- for them --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt has no Port, nor a "Line" -- but the Jays -- That split their route to the Sky -- Or a Squirrel, whose giddy Peninsula May be easier reached -- this way --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor Inlands -- the Earth is the under side -- And the upper side -- is the Sun -- And its Commerce -- if Commerce it have -- Of Spice -- I infer from the Odors borne --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf its Voice -- to affirm -- when the Wind is within -- Can the Dumb -- define the Divine? The Definition of Melody -- is -- That Definition is none -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt -- suggests to our Faith -- They -- suggest to our Sight -- When the latter -- is put away I shall meet with Conviction I somewhere met That Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWas the Pine at my Window a "Fellow Of the Royal" Infinity? Apprehensions -- are God's introductions -- To be hallowed -- accordingly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d798\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe staked her Feathers -- Gained an Arc -- Debated -- Rose again -- This time -- beyond the estimate Of Envy, or of Men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd now, among Circumference -- Her steady Boat be seen -- At home -- among the Billows -- As The Bough where she was born -- Despair's advantage is achieved By suffering -- Despair -- To be assisted of Reverse One must Reverse have bore --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Worthiness of Suffering like The Worthiness of Death Is ascertained by tasting --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs can no other Mouth\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Savors -- make us conscious -- As did ourselves partake -- Affliction feels impalpable Until Ourselves are struck \u8211\'96\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 800-899\u13\'0d\u13\'0d800\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTwo -- were immortal twice -- The privilege of few -- Eternity -- obtained -- in Time -- Reversed Divinity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat our ignoble Eyes The quality conceive Of Paradise superlative -- Through their Comparative.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d801\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI play at Riches -- to appease The Clamoring for Gold -- It kept me from a Thief, I think, For often, overbold\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith Want, and Opportunity -- I could have done a Sin And been Myself that easy Thing An independent Man --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut often as my lot displays Too hungry to be borne I deem Myself what I would be -- And novel Comforting\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Poverty and I derive -- We question if the Man -- Who own -- Esteem the Opulence -- As We -- Who never Can --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShould ever these exploring Hands Chance Sovereign on a Mine -- Or in the long -- uneven term To win, become their turn -- How fitter they will be -- for Want -- Enlightening so well -- I know not which, Desire, or Grant -- Be wholly beautiful --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d802\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTime feels so vast that were it not For an Eternity -- I fear me this Circumference Engross my Finity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo His exclusion, who prepare By Processes of Size For the Stupendous Vision Of his diameters --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d803\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho Court obtain within Himself Sees every Man a King -- And Poverty of Monarchy Is an interior thing --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Man depose Whom Fate Ordain -- And Who can add a Crown To Him who doth continual Conspire against His Own\u13\'0d\u13\'0d804\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Notice gave She, but a Change -- No Message, but a Sigh -- For Whom, the Time did not suffice That She should specify.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe was not warm, though Summer shone Nor scrupulous of cold Though Rime by Rime, the steady Frost Upon Her Bosom piled --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf shrinking ways -- she did not fright Though all the Village looked -- But held Her gravity aloft -- And met the gaze -- direct --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when adjusted like a Seed In careful fitted Ground Unto the Everlasting Spring And hindered but a Mound\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Warm return, if so she chose -And We -- imploring drew -- Removed our invitation by As Some She never knew --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d805\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis Bauble was preferred of Bees -- By Butterflies admired At Heavenly -- Hopeless Distances -Was justified of Bird --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDid Noon -- enamel -- in Herself Was Summer to a Score Who only knew of Universe -- It had created Her.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d806\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Planted Life -- diversified With Gold and Silver Pain To prove the presence of the Ore In Particles -- 'tis when\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Value struggle -- it exist -- A Power -- will proclaim Although Annihilation pile Whole Chaoses on Him --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d807\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExpectation -- is Contentment -- Gain -- Satiety -- But Satiety -- Conviction Of Necessity\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf an Austere trait in Pleasure -- Good, without alarm Is a too established Fortune -- Danger -- deepens Sum --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d808\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo set its Sun in Thee What Day be dark to me -- What Distance -- far -- So I the Ships may see That touch -- how seldomly -- Thy Shore?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d809\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnable are the Loved to die For Love is Immortality, Nay, it is Deity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnable they that love -- to die For Love reforms Vitality Into Divinity. Her Grace is all she has -- And that, so least displays -- One Art to recognize, must be, Another Art, to praise.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d811\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Veins of other Flowers The Scarlet Flowers are Till Nature leisure has for Terms As "Branch," and "Jugular."\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe pass, and she abides. We conjugate Her Skill While She creates and federates Without a syllable.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d812\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Light exists in Spring Not present on the Year At any other period -- When March is scarcely here\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Color stands abroad On Solitary Fields That Science cannot overtake But Human Nature feels.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt waits upon the Lawn,}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
It shows the furthest Tree Upon the furthest Slope you know It almost speaks to you.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen as Horizons step Or Noons report away Without the Formula of sound It passes and we stay --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA quality of loss Affecting our Content As Trade had suddenly encroached Upon a Sacrament.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d813\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis quiet Dust was Gentleman and Ladies And Lads and Girls -- Was laughter and ability and Sighing And Frocks and Curls.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis Passive Place a Summer's nimble mansion Where Bloom and Bees Exists an Oriental Circuit Then cease, like these -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d814\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne Day is there of the Series Termed Thanksgiving Day. Celebrated part at Table Part in Memory.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNeither Patriarch nor Pussy I dissect the Play Seems it to my Hooded thinking Reflex Holiday.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad there been no sharp Subtraction From the early Sum -- Not an Acre or a Caption Where was once a Room --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot a Mention, whose small Pebble Wrinkled any Sea, Unto Such, were such Assembly 'Twere Thanksgiving Day. The Luxury to apprehend The Luxury 'twould be To look at Thee a single time An Epicure of Me\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn whatsoever Presence makes Till for a further Food I scarcely recollect to starve So first am I supplied -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Luxury to meditate The Luxury it was To banguet on thy Countenance A Sumptuousness bestows\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn plainer Days, whose Table far As Certainty can see Is laden with a single Crumb The Consciousness of Thee.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d816\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Death blow is a Life blow to Some Who till they died, did not alive become -- Who had they lived, had died but when They died, Vitality begun.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d817\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGiven in Marriage unto Thee Oh thou Celestial Host - Bride of the Father and the Son Bride of the Holy Ghost.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOther Betrothal shall dissolve -- Wedlock of Will, decay - Only the Keeper of this Ring Conquer Mortality -- 818\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI could not drink it, Sweet, Till You had tasted first, Though cooler than the Water was The Thoughtfullness of Thirst.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d819\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll I may, if small, Do it not display Larger for the Totalness -- 'Tis Economy\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo bestow a World And withhold a Star -- Utmost, is Munificence -- Less, tho' larger, poor.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d820\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll Circumstances are the Frame In which His Face is set -- All Latitudes exist for His Sufficient Continent --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Light His Action, and the Dark The Leisure of His Will - In Him Existence serve or set A Force illegible.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d821\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAway from Home are some and I -- An Emigrant to be In a Metropolis of Homes Is easy, possibly -- The Habit of a Foreign Sky We -- difficult -- acquire As Children, who remain in Face The more their Feet retire.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d822\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis Consciousness that is aware Of Neighbors and the Sun Will be the one aware of Death And that itself alone\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs traversing the interval Experience between And most profound experiment Appointed unto Men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow adequate unto itself Its properties shall be Itself unto itself and none Shall make discovery.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAdventure most unto itself The Soul condemned to be -- Attended by a single Hound Its own identity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d823\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot that We did, shall be the test When Act and Will are done But what Our Lord infers We would Had We diviner been --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d824 [first version]\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wind begun to knead the Grass -- As Women do a Dough -- He flung a Hand full at the Plain -- A Hand full at the Sky -- The Leaves unhooked themselves from Trees -- And started all abroad - The Dust did scoop itself like Hands -- And throw away the Road -- The Wagons -- quickened on the Street -- The Thunders gossiped low -- The Lightning showed a Yellow Head -- And then a livid Toe -- The Birds put up the Bars to Nests - The Cattle flung to Barns -- Then came one drop of Giant Rain -- And then, as if the Hands That held the Dams -- had parted hold -- The Waters Wrecked the Sky -- But overlooked my Father's House -- Just Quartering a Tree -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d[second version]\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wind begun to rock the Grass With threatening Tunes and low -- He threw a Menace at the Earth -- A Menace at the Sky.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Leaves unhooked themselves from Trees -- And started all abroad The Dust did scoop itself like Hands And threw away the Road.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wagons quickened on the Streets The Thunder hurried slow -- The Lightning showed a Yellow Beak And then a livid Claw.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Birds put up the Bars to Nests -The Cattle fled to Barns -- There came one drop of Giant Rain And then as if the Hands\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat held the Dams had parted hold The Waters Wrecked the Sky, But overlooked my Father's House -- Just quartering a Tree --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d825\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn Hour is a Sea Between a few, and me -- With them would Harbor be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d826\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLove reckons by itself -- alone -- "As large as I" -- relate the Sun To One who never felt it blaze -- Itself is all the like it has --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d827\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Only News I know Is Bulletins all Day From Immortality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Only Shows I see -Tomorrow and Today -- Perchance Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Only One I meet Is God -- The Only Street -- Existence -- This traversed\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf Other News there be -- Or Admirable Show -- I'll tell it You -- The Robin is the One That interrupt the Morn With hurried -- few -- express Reports When March is scarcely on --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Robin is the One That overflow the Noon With her cherubic quantity -- An April but begun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Robin is the One That speechless from her Nest Submit that Home -- and Certainty And Sanctity, are best\u13\'0d\u13\'0d829\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAmple make this Bed -Make this Bed with Awe -- In it wait till Judgment break Excellent and Fair.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBe its Mattress straight -- Be its Pillow round -- Let no Sunrise' yellow noise Interrupt this Ground --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d830\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo this World she returned. But with a tinge of that -A Compound manner, As a Sod Espoused a Violet, That chiefer to the Skies Than to himself, allied, Dwelt hesitating, half of Dust, And half of Day, the Bride. 831\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDying! To be afraid of thee One must to thine Artillery Have left exposed a Friend -- Than thine old Arrow is a Shot Delivered straighter to the Heart The leaving Love behind.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot for itself, the Dust is shy, But, enemy, Beloved be Thy Batteries divorce. Fight sternly in a Dying eye Two Armies, Love and Certainty And Love and the Reverse.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d832\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSoto! Explore thyself! Therein thyself shalt find The "Undiscovered Continent" -- No Settler had the Mind.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d833\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps you think me stooping I'm not ashamed of that Christ -- stooped until He touched the Grave -- Do those at Sacrament\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCommemorative Dishonor Or love annealed of love Until it bend as low as Death Redignified, above? Before He comes we weigh the Time! 'Tis Heavy and 'tis Light. When He depart, an Emptiness Is the prevailing Freight.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d835\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNature and God -- I neither knew Yet Both so well knew me They startled, like Executors Of My identity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYet Neither told -- that I could learn -My Secret as secure As Herschel's private interest Or Mercury's affair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d836\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTruth -- is as old as God -- His Twin identity And will endure as long as He A Co-Eternity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd perish on the Day Himself is borne away From Mansion of the Universe A lifeless Deity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d837\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow well I knew Her not Whom not to know has been A Bounty in prospective, now Next Door to mine the Pain. Impossibility, like Wine Exhilarates the Man Who tastes it; Possibility Is flavorless -- Combine\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Chance's faintest Tincture And in the former Dram Enchantment makes ingredient As certainly as Doom --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d839\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAlways Mine! No more Vacation! Term of Light this Day begun! Failless as the fair rotation Of the Seasons and the Sun.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOld the Grace, but new the Subjects -- Old, indeed, the East, Yet upon His Purple Programme Every Dawn, is first.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d840\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cannot buy it -- 'tis not sold -- There is no other in the World -- Mine was the only one\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI was so happy I forgot To shut the Door And it went out And I am all alone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I could find it Anywhere I would not mind the journey there Though it took all my store\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut just to look it in the Eye -- "Did'st thou?" "Thou did'st not mean," to say, Then, turn my Face away. 841\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Moth the hue of this Haunts Candles in Brazil. Nature's Experience would make Our Reddest Second pale.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNature is fond, I sometimes think, Of Trinkets, as a Girl. 842\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGood to hide, and hear 'em hunt! Better, to be found, If one care to, that is, The Fox fits the Hound --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGood to know, and not tell, Best, to know and tell, Can one find the rare Ear Not too dull --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d843\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI made slow Riches but my Gain Was steady as the Sun And every Night, it numbered more Than the preceding One\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll Days, I did not earn the same But my perceiveless Gain Inferred the less by Growing than The Sum that it had grown. Spring is the Period Express from God. Among the other seasons Himself abide,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut during March and April None stir abroad Without a cordial interview With God.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d845\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBe Mine the Doom -- Sufficient Fame -- To perish in Her Hand!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d846\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTwice had Summer her fair Verdure Proffered to the Plain - Twice a Winter's silver Fracture On the Rivers been --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTwo full Autumns for the Squirrel Bounteous prepared -- Nature, Had'st thou not a Berry For thy wandering Bird?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d847\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFinite -- to fail, but infinite to Venture -- For the one ship that struts the shore Many's the gallant -- overwhelmed Creature Nodding in Navies nevermore -- Just as He spoke it from his Hands This Edifice remain -- A Turret more, a Turret less Dishonor his Design --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAccording as his skill prefer It perish, or endure -- Content, soe'er, it ornament His absent character.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d849\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe good Will of a Flower The Man who would possess Must first present Certificate Of minted Holiness.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d850\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI sing to use the Waiting My Bonnet but to tie And shut the Door unto my House No more to do have I\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill His best step approaching We journey to the Day And tell each other how We sung To Keep the Dark away.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d851\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen the Astronomer stops seeking For his Pleiad's Face -- When the lone British Lady Forsakes the Arctic Race\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen to his Covenant Needle The Sailor doubting turns -- It will be amply early To ask what treason means.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d852\u13\'0d\u13\'0dApology for Her Be rendered by the Bee -- Herself, without a Parliament Apology for Me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d853\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen One has given up One's life The parting with the rest Feels}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
easy, as when Day lets go Entirely the West\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Peaks, that lingered last Remain in Her regret As scarcely as the Iodine Upon the Cataract.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d854\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBanish Air from Air -- Divide Light if you dare -- They'll meet While Cubes in a Drop Or Pellets of Shape Fit Films cannot annul Odors return whole Force Flame And with a Blonde push Over your impotence Flits Steam. 855\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo own the Art within the Soul The Soul to entertain With Silence as a Company And Festival maintain\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs an unfurnished Circumstance Possession is to One As an Estate perpetual Or a reduceless Mine.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d856\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is a finished feeling Experienced at Graves -- A leisure of the Future -- A Wilderness of Size.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy Death's bold Exhibition Preciser what we are And the Eternal function Enabled to infer.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d857\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUncertain lease -- develops lustre On Time Uncertain Grasp, appreciation Of Sum --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe shorter Fate -- is oftener the chiefest Because Inheritors upon a tenure Prize -- This Chasm, Sweet, upon my life I mention it to you, When Sunrise through a fissure drop The Day must follow too.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf we demur, its gaping sides Disclose as 'twere a Tomb Ourself am lying straight wherein The Favorite of Doom.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen it has just contained a Life Then, Darling, it will close And yet so bolder every Day So turbulent it grows\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'm tempted half to stitch it up With a remaining Breath I should not miss in yielding, though To Him, it would be Death --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so I bear it big about My Burial -- before A Life quite ready to depart Can harass me no more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d859\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA doubt if it be Us Assists the staggering Mind In an extremer Anguish Until it footing find.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn Unreality is lent, A merciful Mirage That makes the living possible While it suspends the lives. Absence disembodies -- so does Death Hiding individuals from the Earth Superposition helps, as well as love -- Tenderness decreases as we prove --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d861\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSplit the Lark -- and you'll find the Music -- Bulb after Bulb, in Silver rolled -- Scantilly dealt to the Summer Morning Saved for your Ear when Lutes be old.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLoose the Flood -- you shall find it patent -- Gush after Gush, reserved for you -- Scarlet Experiment! Sceptic Thomas! Now, do you doubt that your Bird was true?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d862\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLight is sufficient to itself -- If Others want to see It can be had on Window Panes Some Hours in the Day.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut not for Compensation -- It holds as large a Glow To Squirrel in the Himmaleh Precisely, as to you.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d863\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Distance was between Us That is not of Mile or Main -- The Will it is that situates -- Equator -- never can -- The Robin for the Crumb Returns no syllable But long records the Lady's name In Silver Chronicle.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d865\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe outstripped Time with but a Bout, He outstripped Stars and Sun And then, unjaded, challenged God In presence of the Throne.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd He and He in mighty List Unto this present, run, The larger Glory for the less A just sufficient Ring.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d866\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFame is the tine that Scholars leave Upon their Setting Names -- The Iris not of Occident That disappears as comes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d867\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEscaping backward to perceive The Sea upon our place -- Escaping forward, to confront His glittering Embrace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRetreating up, a Billow's height Retreating blinded down Our undermining feet to meet Instructs to the Divine. They ask but our Delight -- The Darlings of the Soil And grant us all their Countenance For a penurious smile.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d869\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause the Bee may blameless hum For Thee a Bee do I become List even unto Me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause the Flowers unafraid May lift a look on thine, a Maid Alway a Flower would be.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor Robins, Robins need not hide When Thou upon their Crypts intrude So Wings bestow on Me Or Petals, or a Dower of Buzz That Bee to ride, or Flower of Furze I that way worship Thee.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d870\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFinding is the first Act The second, loss, Third, Expedition for The "Golden Fleece"\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFourth, no Discovery -- Fifth, no Crew -- Finally, no Golden Fleece -- Jason -- sham -- too. The Sun and Moon must make their haste -- The Stars express around For in the Zones of Paradise The Lord alone is burned --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Eye, it is the East and West -- The North and South when He Do concentrate His Countenance Like Glow Worms, flee away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh Poor and Far -- Oh Hindred Eye That hunted for the Day -- The Lord a Candle entertains Entirely for Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d872\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs the Starved Maelstrom laps the Navies As the Vulture teased Forces the Broods in lonely Valleys As the Tiger eased\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy but a Crumb of Blood, fasts Scarlet Till he meet a Man Dainty adorned with Veins and Tissues And partakes -- his Tongue\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCooled by the Morsel for a moment Grows a fiercer thing Till he esteem his Dates and Cocoa A Nutrition mean\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI, of a finer Famine Deem my Supper dry For but a Berry of Domingo And a Torrid Eye. Ribbons of the Year -- Multitude Brocade -- Worn to Nature's Party once\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen, as flung aside As a faded Bead Or a Wrinkled Pearl Who shall charge the Vanity Of the Maker's Girl?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d874\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey won't frown always -- some sweet Day When I forget to tease - They'll recollect how cold I looked And how I just said "Please."\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen They will hasten to the Door To call the little Girl Who cannot thank Them for the Ice That filled the lisping full.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d875\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI stepped from Plank to Plank A slow and cautious way The Stars about my Head I felt About my Feet the Sea.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI knew not but the next Would be my final inch - This gave me that precarious Gait Some call Experience.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d876\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt was a Grave, yet bore no Stone Enclosed 'twas not of Rail A Consciousness its Acre, and It held a Human Soul.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEntombed by whom, for what offence If Home or Foreign born -- Had I the curiosity 'Twere not appeased of men\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill Resurrection, I must guess Denied the small desire A Rose upon its Ridge to sow Or take away a Briar.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d877\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEach Scar I'll keep for Him Instead I'll say of Gem In His long Absence worn A Costlier one\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut every Tear I bore Were He to count them o'er His own would fall so more I'll mis sum them.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d878\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun is gay or stark According to our Deed. If Merry, He is merrier -- If eager for the Dead\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr an expended Day He helped to make too bright His mighty pleasure suits Us not It magnifies our Freight Each Second is the last Perhaps, recalls the Man Just measuring unconsciousness The Sea and Spar between.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo fail within a Chance -- How terribler a thing Than perish from the Chance's list Before the Perishing!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d880\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Bird must sing to earn the Crumb What merit have the Tune No Breakfast if it guaranty\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Rose content may bloom To gain renown of Lady's Drawer But if the Lady come But once a Century, the Rose Superfluous become --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d881\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI've none to tell me to but Thee So when Thou failest, nobody. It was a little tie -- It just held Two, nor those it held Since Somewhere thy sweet Face has spilled Beyond my Boundary --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf things were opposite -- and Me And Me it were -- that ebbed from Thee On some unanswering Shore -- Would'st Thou seek so -- just say That I the Answer may pursue Unto the lips it eddied through -- So -- overtaking Thee - A Shade upon the mind there passes As when on Noon A Cloud the mighty Sun encloses Remembering\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat some there be too numb to notice Oh God Why give if Thou must take away The Loved?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d883\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Poets light but Lamps -- Themselves -- go out -- The Wicks they stimulate -- If vital Light\u13\'0d\u13\'0dInhere as do the Suns -- Each Age a Lens Disseminating their Circumference --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d884\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Everywhere of Silver With Ropes of Sand To keep it from effacing The Track called Land.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d885\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur little Kinsmen -- after Rain In plenty may be seen, A Pink and Pulpy multitude The tepid Ground upon.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA needless life, it seemed to me Until a little Bird As to a Hospitality Advanced and breakfasted.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs I of He, so God of Me I pondered, may have judged, And left the little Angle Worm With Modesties enlarged.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d886\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese tested Our Horizon -- Then disappeared As Birds before achieving A Latitude.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur Retrospection of Them A fixed Delight, But our Anticipation A Dice -- a Doubt --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d887\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe outgrow love, like other things And put it in the Drawer -- Till it an Antique fashion shows -- Like Costumes Grandsires wore.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d888\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen I have seen the Sun emerge From His amazing House -- And leave a Day at every Door A Deed, in every place --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithout the incident of Fame Or accident of Noise -- The Earth has seemed to me a Drum, Pursued of little Boys Crisis is a Hair Toward which the forces creep Past which forces retrograde If it come in sleep\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo suspend the Breath Is the most we can Ignorant is it Life or Death Nicely balancing.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet an instant push Or an Atom press Or a Circle hesitate In Circumference\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt -- may jolt the Hand That adjusts the Hair That secures Eternity From presenting -- Here --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d890\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrom Us She wandered now a Year, Her tarrying, unknown, If Wilderness prevent her feet Or that Ethereal Zone\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo eye hath seen and lived We ignorant must be -- We only know what time of Year We took the Mystery.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d891\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo my quick ear the Leaves -- conferred -- The Bushes -- they were Bells -- I could not find a Privacy From Nature's sentinels --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn Cave if I presumed to hide The Walls -- begun to tell -- Creation seemed a mighty Crack -- To make me visible --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d892\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho occupies this House? A Stranger I must judge Since No one know His Circumstance -- 'Tis well the name and age\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAre writ upon the Door Or I should fear to pause Where not so much as Honest Dog Approach encourages.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt seems a curious Town -- Some Houses very old, Some -- newly raised this Afternoon, Were I compelled to build\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt should not be among Inhabitants so still But where the Birds assemble And Boys were possible.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBefore Myself was born 'Twas settled, so they say, A Territory for the Ghosts -- And Squirrels, formerly.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUntil a Pioneer, as Settlers often do Liking the quiet of the Place Attracted more unto --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd from a Settlement A Capital has grown Distinguished for the gravity Of every Citizen.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Owner of this House A Stranger He must be -- Eternity's Acquaintances Are}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
mostly so -- to me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d893\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDrab Habitation of Whom? Tabernacle or Tomb -- Or Dome of Worm -- Or Porch of Gnome -- Or some Elf's Catacomb?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d894\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Consciousness, her awful Mate The Soul cannot be rid - As easy the secreting her Behind the Eyes of God.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe deepest hid is sighted first And scant to Him the Crowd -- What triple Lenses burn upon The Escapade from God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d895\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Cloud withdrew from the Sky Superior Glory be But that Cloud and its Auxiliaries Are forever lost to me\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad I but further scanned Had I secured the Glow In an Hermetic Memory It had availed me now.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNever to pass the Angel With a glance and a Bow Till I am firm in Heaven Is my intention now.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d896\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Silken Speech and Specious Shoe A Traitor is the Bee His service to the newest Grace Present continually\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Suit a chance His Troth a Term Protracted as the Breeze Continual Ban propoundeth He Continual Divorce.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d897\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow fortunate the Grave -- All Prizes to obtain -- Successful certain, if at last, First Suitor not in vain.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d898\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow happy I was if I could forget To remember how sad I am Would be an easy adversity But the recollecting of Bloom\u13\'0d\u13\'0dKeeps making November difficult Till I who was almost bold Lose my way like a little Child And perish of the cold. 899\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHerein a Blossom lies - A Sepulchre, between -- Cross it, and overcome the Bee -- Remain -- 'tis but a Rind.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 900-999\u13\'0d\u13\'0d900\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat did They do since I saw Them? Were They industrious? So many questions to put Them Have I the eagerness\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat could I snatch Their Faces That could Their lips reply Not till the last was answered Should They start for the Sky.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot if Their Party were waiting, Not if to talk with Me Were to Them now, Homesickness After Eternity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot if the Just suspect me And offer a Reward Would I restore my Booty To that Bold Person, God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d901\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSweet, to have had them lost For news that they be saved -- The nearer they departed Us The nearer they, restored,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShall stand to Our Right Hand -- Most precious and the Dead -- Next precious Those that rose to go - Then thought of Us, and stayed. The first Day that I was a Life I recollect it -- How still -That last Day that I was a Life I recollect it -- as well -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas stiller -- though the first Was still -- "Twas empty -- but the first Was full --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis -- was my finallest Occasion -But then My tenderer Experiment Toward Men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Which choose I"? That -- I cannot say -- "Which choose They"? Question Memory!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d903\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI hide myself within my flower, That fading from your Vase, You, unsuspecting, feel for me -- Almost a loneliness.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d904\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad I not This, or This, I said, Appealing to Myself, In moment of prosperity -- Inadequate -- were Life --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Thou hast not Me, nor Me" -- it said, In Moment of Reverse -- "And yet Thou art industrious -- No need -- hadst Thou -- of us"?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy need -- was all I had -- I said -- The need did not reduce -- Because the food -- exterminate -- The hunger -- does not cease --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut diligence -- is sharper -- Proportioned to the Chance -- To feed upon the Retrograde -- Enfeebles -- the Advance --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d905\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBetween My Country -- and the Others -- There is a Sea -- But Flowers -- negotiate between us -- As Ministry.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d906\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Admirations -- and Contempts -- of time -- Show justest -- through an Open Tomb -- The Dying -- as it were a Height Reorganizes Estimate And what We saw not We distinguish clear -- And mostly -- see not What We saw before --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Compound Vision - Light -- enabling Light - The Finite -- furnished With the Infinite -- Convex -- and Concave Witness -Back -- toward Time -- And forward -- Toward the God of Him -- Till Death -- is narrow Loving -- The scantest Heart extant Will hold you till your privilege Of Finiteness -- be spent --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut He whose loss procures you Such Destitution that Your Life too abject for itself Thenceforward imitate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUntil -- Resemblance perfect -- Yourself, for His pursuit Delight of Nature -- abdicate -- Exhibit Love -- somewhat --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d908\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Sunrise -- Little Maid -- Hast Thou No Station in the Day? 'Twas not thy wont, to hinder so -- Retrieve thine industry --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Noon -- My little Maid -- Alas -- and art thou sleeping yet? The Lily -- waiting to be Wed -- The Bee -- Hast thou forgot?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy little Maid -- 'Tis Night -- Alas That Night should be to thee Instead of Morning -- Had'st thou broached Thy little Plan to Die -- Dissuade thee, if I could not, Sweet, I might have aided -- thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d909\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI make His Crescent fill or lack -- His Nature is at Full Or Quarter -- as I signify -- His Tides -- do I control - He holds superior in the Sky Or gropes, at my Command Behind inferior Clouds -- or round A Mist's slow Colonnade --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut since We hold a Mutual Disc -- And front a Mutual Day -- Which is the Despot, neither knows -Nor Whose -- the Tyranny --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d910\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExperience is the Angled Road Preferred against the Mind By -- Paradox -- the Mind itself -- Presuming it to lead\u13\'0d\u13\'0dQuite Opposite -- How Complicate The Discipline of Man -- Compelling Him to Choose Himself His Preappointed Pain -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d911\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo little way the House must lie From every Human Heart That holds in undisputed Lease A white inhabitant --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo narrow is the Right between -- Too imminent the chance -- Each Consciousness must emigrate And lose its neighbor once --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d912\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPeace is a fiction of our Faith -- The Bells a Winter Night Bearing the Neighbor out of Sound That never did alight. 913\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd this of all my Hopes This, is the silent end Bountiful colored, my Morning rose Early and sere, its end\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNever Bud from a Stem Stepped with so gay a Foot Never a Worm so confident Bored at so brave a Root\u13\'0d\u13\'0d914\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cannot be ashamed Because I cannot see The love you offer -- Magnitude Reverses Modesty\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd I cannot be proud Because a Height so high Involves Alpine Requirements And Services of Snow.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d915\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFaith -- is the Pierless Bridge Supporting what We see Unto the Scene that We do not -- Too slender for the eye\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt bears the Soul as bold As it were rocked in Steel With Arms of Steel at either side -- It joins -- behind the Veil To what, could We presume The Bridge would cease to be To Our far, vacillating Feet A first Necessity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d916\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Feet are shod with Gauze -- His Helmet, is of Gold, His Breast, a Single Onyx With Chrysophrase, inlaid.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Labor is a Chant -- His Idleness -- a Tune -- Oh, for a Bee's experience Of Clovers, and of Noon!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d917\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLove -- is anterior to Life -- Posterior -- to Death -- Initial of Creation, and The Exponent of Earth --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d918\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOnly a Shrine, but Mine -- I made the Taper shine -- Madonna dim, to whom all Feet may come, Regard a Nun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThou knowest every Woe -- Needless to tell thee -- so -- But can'st thou do The Grace next to it -- heal? That looks a harder skill to us -- Still -- just as easy, if it be thy Will To thee -- Grant me -- Thou knowest, though, so Why tell thee?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d919\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I can stop one Heart from breaking I shall not live in vain If I can ease one Life the Aching Or cool one Pain\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr help one fainting Robin Unto his Nest again I shall not live in Vain.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d920\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe can but follow to the Sun -- As oft as He go down He leave Ourselves a Sphere behind -- 'Tis mostly -- following -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe go no further with the Dust Than to the Earthen Door -- And then the Panels are reversed -- And we behold -- no more.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d921\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf it had no pencil Would it try mine -- Worn -- now -- and dull -- sweet, Writing much to thee. If it had no word, Would it make the Daisy, Most as big as I was, When it plucked me? 922\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThose who have been in the Grave the longest -Those who begin Today -- Equally perish from our Practise -- Death is the other way --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFoot of the Bold did least attempt it -- It -- is the White Exploit -- Once to achieve, annuls the power Once to communicate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d923\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow the Waters closed above Him We shall never know -- How He stretched His Anguish to us That -- is covered too --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSpreads the Pond Her Base of Lilies Bold above the Boy Whose unclaimed Hat and Jacket Sum the History --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d924\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLove -- is that later Thing than Death -- More previous -- than Life -- Confirms it at its entrance -- And Usurps it -- of itself --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTastes Death -- the first -- to hand the sting The Second -- to its friend -- Disarms the little interval -- Deposits Him with God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen hovers -- an inferior Guard -- Lest this Beloved Charge Need -- once in an Eternity -- A smaller than the Large --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d925\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStruck, was I, not yet by Lightning -Lightning -- lets away Power to perceive His Process With Vitality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMaimed -- was I -- yet not by Venture -- Stone of stolid Boy -- Nor a Sportsman's Peradventure -- Who mine Enemy?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRobbed -- was I -- intact to Bandit -- All my Mansion torn -- Sun -- withdrawn to Recognition -- Furthest shining -- done --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYet was not the foe -- of any -- Not the smallest Bird In the nearest Orchard dwelling Be of Me -- afraid.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMost -- I love the Cause that slew Me. Often as I die Its beloved Recognition Holds a Sun on Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBest -- at Setting -- as is Nature's -- Neither witnessed Rise Till the infinite Aurora In the other's eyes.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d926\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPatience -- has a quiet Outer -- Patience -- Look within -- Is an Insect's futile forces Infinites -- between --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Scaping one -- against the other Fruitlesser to fling -- Patience -- is the Smile's exertion Through the quivering --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d927\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAbsent Place -- an April Day -- Daffodils a-blow Homesick curiosity To the Souls that snow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDrift may block within it Deeper than without -- Daffodil delight but Him it duplicate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d928\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heart has narrow Banks It measures like the Sea In mighty -- unremitting Bass And Blue Monotony\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill Hurricane bisect And as itself discerns Its sufficient Area The Heart convulsive learns\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Calm is but a Wall Of unattempted Gauze An instant's Push demolishes A Questioning -- dissolves.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d929\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow far is it to Heaven? As far as Death this way -- Of River or of Ridge beyond Was no discovery.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow far is it to Hell? As far as Death}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
this way -- How far left hand the Sepulchre Defies Topography.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d930\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is a June when Corn is cut And Roses in the Seed -- A Summer briefer than the first But tenderer indeed\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs should a Face supposed the Grave's Emerge a single Noon In the Vermilion that it wore Affect us, and return --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTwo Seasons, it is said, exist -- The Summer of the Just, And this of Ours, diversified With Prospect, and with Frost --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMay not our Second with its First So infinite compare That We but recollect the one The other to prefer?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d931\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNoon -- is the Hinge of Day -- Evening -- the Tissue Door -- Morning -- the East compelling the sill Till all the World is ajar -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d932 My best Acquaintances are those With Whom I spoke no Word -- The Stars that stated come to Town Esteemed Me never rude Although to their Celestial Call I failed to make reply -- My constant -- reverential Face Sufficient Courtesy.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d933\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTwo Travellers perishing in Snow The Forests as they froze Together heard them strengthening Each other with the words\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Heaven if Heaven -- must contain What Either left behind And then the cheer too solemn grew For language, and the wind\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLong steps across the features took That Love had touched the Morn With reverential Hyacinth -- The taleless Days went on\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill Mystery impatient drew And those They left behind Led absent, were procured of Heaven As Those first furnished, said --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d934\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat is solemn we have ended Be it but a Play Or a Glee among the Garret Or a Holiday\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr a leaving Home, or later, Parting with a World We have understood for better Still to be explained.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d935\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeath leaves Us homesick, who behind, Except that it is gone Are ignorant of its Concern As if it were not born.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThrough all their former Places, we Like Individuals go Who something lost, the seeking for Is all that's left them, now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d936\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis Dust, and its Feature -- Accredited -- Today -- Will in a second Future -- Cease to identify --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis Mind, and its measure -- A too minute Area For its enlarged inspection's Comparison -- appear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis World, and its species A too concluded show For its absorbed Attention's Remotest scrutiny --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d937\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI felt a Cleaving in my Mind -- As if my Brain had split -- I tried to match it -- Seam by Seam -- But could not make it fit. The thought behind, I strove to join Unto the thought before -- But Sequence ravelled out of Sound Like Balls -- upon a Floor.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d938\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFairer through Fading -- as the Day Into the Darkness dips away -- Half Her Complexion of the Sun -- Hindering -- Haunting -- Perishing -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRallies Her Glow, like a dying Friend -- Teasing with glittering Amend -- Only to aggravate the Dark Through an expiring -- perfect -- look --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d939\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat I see not, I better see -- Through Faith -- my Hazel Eye Has periods of shutting -But, No lid has Memory --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor frequent, all my sense obscured I equally behold As someone held a light unto The Features so beloved ---\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd I arise -- and in my Dream -- Do Thee distinguished Grace -- Till jealous Daylight interrupt -- And mar thy perfectness --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d940\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn that dear Frame the Years had worn Yet precious as the House In which We first experienced Light The Witnessing, to Us - Precious! It was conceiveless fair As Hands the Grave had grimed Should softly place within our own Denying that they died.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d941\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lady feeds Her little Bird At rarer intervals -- The little Bird would not dissent But meekly recognize\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Gulf between the Hand and Her And crumbless and afar And fainting, on Her yellow Knee Fall softly, and adore --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d942\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSnow beneath whose chilly softness Some that never lay Make their first Repose this Winter I admonish Thee\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBlanket Wealthier the Neighbor We so new bestow Than thine acclimated Creature Wilt Thou, Austere Snow?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d943\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Coffin -- is a small Domain, Yet able to contain A Citizen of Paradise In it diminished Plane.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Grave -- is a restricted Breadth -- Yet ampler than the Sun -- And all the Seas He populates And Lands He looks upon\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo Him who on its small Repose Bestows a single Friend -- Circumference without Relief -- Or Estimate -- or End --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d944\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI learned -- at least -- what Home could be -- How ignorant I had been Of pretty ways of Covenant -- How awkward at the Hymn\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRound our new Fireside -- but for this -- This pattern -- of the Way -- Whose Memory drowns me, like the Dip Of a Celestial Sea --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat Mornings in our Garden -- guessed -- What Bees -- for us -- to hum -- With only Birds to interrupt The Ripple of our Theme --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Task for Both -- When Play be done -- Your Problem -- of the Brain -- And mine -- some foolisher effect -A Ruffle -- or a Tune --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Afternoons -- Together spent -And Twilight -- in the Lanes -- Some ministry to poorer lives -- Seen poorest -- thro' our gains --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then Return -- and Night -- and Home --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then away to You to pass -- A new -- diviner -- care -- Till Sunrise take us back to Scene -- Transmuted -- Vivider --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis seems a Home -- And Home is not -- But what that Place could be -- Afflicts me -- as a Setting Sun -- Where Dawn -- knows how to be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d945\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis is a Blossom of the Brain -- A small -- italic Seed Lodged by Design or Happening The Spirit fructified --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShy as the Wind of his Chambers Swift as a Freshet's Tongue So of the Flower of the Soul Its process is unknown.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen it is found, a few rejoice The Wise convey it Home Carefully cherishing the spot If other Flower become.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen it is lost, that Day shall be The Funeral of God, Upon his Breast, a closing Soul The Flower of our Lord.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d946\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt is an honorable Thought And make One lift One's Hat As One met sudden Gentlefolk Upon a daily Street\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat We've immortal Place Though Pyramids decay And Kingdoms, like the Orchard Flit Russetly away\u13\'0d\u13\'0d947\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Tolling Bell I ask the cause? "A Soul has gone to Heaven" I'm answered in a lonesome tone -- Is Heaven then a Prison?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Bells should ring till all should know A Soul had gone to Heaven Would seem to me the more the way A Good News should be given.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d948\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas Crisis -- All the length had passed -- That dull -- benumbing time There is in Fever or Event -- And now the Chance had come --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe instant holding in its claw The privilege to live Or warrant to report the Soul The other side the Grave.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Muscles grappled as with leads That would not let the Will -- The Spirit shook the Adamant -- But could not make it feel.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Second poised -- debated -- shot -- Another had begun -- And simultaneously, a Soul Escaped the House unseen --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d949\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnder the Light, yet under, Under the Grass and the Dirt, Under the Beetle's Cellar Under the Clover's Root,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFurther than Arm could stretch Were it Giant long, Further than Sunshine could Were the Day Year long,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOver the Light, yet over, Over the Arc of the Bird -- Over the Comet's chimney -- Over the Cubit's Head,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFurther than Guess can gallop Further than Riddle ride -- Oh for a Disc to the Distance Between Ourselves and the Dead!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d950\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sunset stopped on Cottages Where Sunset hence must be For treason not of His, but Life's, Gone Westerly, Today --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sunset stopped on Cottages Where Morning just begun -- What difference, after all, Thou mak'st Thou supercilious Sun?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d951\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Frost is best conceived By force of its Result -- Affliction is inferred By subsequent effect -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf when the sun reveal, The Garden keep the Gash -- If as the Days resume The wilted countenance\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCannot correct the crease Or counteract the stain -- Presumption is Vitality Was somewhere put in twain.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d952\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Man may make a Remark -- In itself -- a quiet thing That may furnish the Fuse unto a Spark In dormant nature -- lain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet us deport -- with skill -- Let us discourse -- with care -- Powder exists in Charcoal -- Before it exists in Fire.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d953\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Door just opened on a street -- I -- lost -- was passing by -- An instant's Width of Warmth disclosed -- And Wealth -- and Company.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Door as instant shut -- And I -- I -- lost -- was passing by -- Lost doubly -- but by contrast -- most -- Informing -- misery --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d954\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Chemical conviction That Nought be lost Enable in Disaster My fractured Trust -- The Faces of the Atoms If I shall see How more the Finished Creatures Departed me!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d955\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Hollows round His eager Eyes Were Pages where to read Pathetic Histories -- although Himself had not complained. Biography to All who passed Of Unobtrusive Pain Except for the italic Face Endured, unhelped -- unknown.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d956\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat shall I do when the Summer troubles -- What, when the Rose is ripe -- What when the Eggs fly off in Music From the Maple Keep?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat shall I do when the Skies a'chirrup Drop a Tune on me -- When the Bee hangs all Noon in the Buttercup What will become of me?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh, when the Squirrel fills His Pockets And the Berries stare How can I bear their jocund Faces Thou from Here, so far?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twouldn't afflict a Robin -- All His Goods have Wings -- I -- do not fly, so wherefore My Perennial Things? 957\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs One does Sickness over In convalescent Mind, His scrutiny of Chances By blessed Health obscured --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs One rewalks a Precipice And whittles at the Twig That held Him from Perdition Sown sidewise in the Crag\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Custom of the Soul Far after suffering Identity to question For evidence't has been --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d958\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe met as Sparks -- Diverging Flints Sent various -- scattered ways -- We parted as the Central Flint Were cloven with an Adze -- Subsisting on the Light We bore Before We felt the Dark -- A Flint unto this Day -- perhaps -- But for that single Spark.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d959\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA loss of something ever felt I -- The first that I could recollect Bereft I was -- of what I knew not Too young that any should suspect\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Mourner walked among the children I notwithstanding went about As one bemoaning a Dominion Itself the only Prince cast out -- Elder, Today, a session wiser And fainter, too, as Wiseness is -- I find myself still softly searching For my Delinguent Palaces --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd a Suspicion, like}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
a Finger Touches my Forehead now and then That I am looking oppositely For the site of the Kingdom of Heaven --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d960\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs plan for Noon and plan for Night So differ Life and Death In positive Prospective -- The Foot upon the Earth\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt Distance, and Achievement, strains, The Foot upon the Grave Makes effort at conclusion Assisted faint of Love.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d961\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWert Thou but ill -- that I might show thee How long a Day I could endure Though thine attention stop not on me Nor the least signal, Me assure --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWert Thou but Stranger in ungracious country -- And Mine -- the Door Thou paused at, for a passing bounty -- No More -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAccused -- wert Thou -- and Myself -- Tribunal -Convicted -- Sentenced -- Ermine -- not to Me Half the Condition, thy Reverse -- to follow -- Just to partake -- the infamy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Tenant of the Narrow Cottage, wert Thou -- Permit to be The Housewife in thy low attendance Contenteth Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Service hast Thou, I would not achieve it -- To die -- or live -- The first -- Sweet, proved I, ere I saw thee -- For Life -- be Love --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d962\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMidsummer, was it, when They died -- A full, and perfect time -- The Summer closed upon itself In Consummated Bloom --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Corn, her furthest kernel filled Before the coming Flail - When These -- leaned unto Perfectness -- Through Haze of Burial --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d963\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA nearness to Tremendousness -- An Agony procures -- Affliction ranges Boundlessness -- Vicinity to Laws\u13\'0d\u13\'0dContentment's quiet Suburb -- Affliction cannot stay In Acres -- Its Location Is Illocality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d964 "Unto Me?" I do not know you -- Where may be your House? "I am Jesus -- Late of Judea --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNow -- of Paradise" -- Wagons -- have you -- to convey me? This is far from Thence --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Arms of Mine -- sufficient Phaeton -- Trust Omnipotence" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI am spotted -- "I am Pardon" -- I am small -- "The Least Is esteemed in Heaven the Chiefest -- Occupy my House" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d965\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDenial -- is the only fact Perceived by the Denied -- Whose Will -- a numb significance -- The Day the Heaven died --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd all the Earth strove common round -- Without Delight, or Beam -- What Comfort was it Wisdom -- was -- The spoiler of Our Home?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d966\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll forgot for recollecting Just a paltry One -- All forsook, for just a Stranger's New Accompanying --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGrace of Wealth, and Grace of Station Less accounted than An unknown Esteem possessing -- Estimate -- Who can -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHome effaced -- Her faces dwindled -- Nature -- altered small -- Sun -- if shone -- or Storm -- if shattered -- Overlooked I all -- Dropped -- my fate -- a timid Pebble -- In thy bolder Sea -- Prove -- me -- Sweet -- if I regret it -Prove Myself -- of Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d967\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPain -- expands the Time -- Ages coil within The minute Circumference Of a single Brain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPain contracts -- the Time -- Occupied with Shot Gamuts of Eternities Are as they were not --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d968\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFitter to see Him, I may be For the long Hindrance -- Grace -- to Me -- With Summers, and with Winters, grow, Some passing Year -- A trait bestow\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo make Me fairest of the Earth -- The Waiting -- then -- will seem so worth I shall impute with half a pain The blame that I was chosen -- then --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTime to anticipate His Gaze -- It's first -- Delight -- and then -- Surprise -- The turning o'er and o'er my face For Evidence it be the Grace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe left behind One Day -- So less He seek Conviction, That -- be This --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI only must not grow so new That He'll mistake -- and ask for me Of me -- when first unto the Door I go -- to Elsewhere go no more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI only must not change so fair He'll sigh -- "The Other -- She -- is Where?" The Love, tho', will array me right I shall be perfect -- in His sight --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf He perceive the other Truth -- Upon an Excellenter Youth --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow sweet I shall not lack in Vain - But gain -- thro' loss -- Through Grief -- obtain -The Beauty that reward Him best -- The Beauty of Demand -- at Rest --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d969\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe who in Himself believes -- Fraud cannot presume -- Faith is Constancy's Result -- And assumes -- from Home --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCannot perish, though it fail Every second time -- But defaced Vicariously -- For Some Other Shame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d970\u13\'0d\u13\'0dColor -- Caste -- Denomination -- These -- are Time's Affair -- Death's diviner Classifying Does not know they are --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs in sleep -- All Hue forgotten -- Tenets -- put behind -- Death's large -- Democratic fingers Rub away the Brand -- If Circassian -- He is careless -- If He put away Chrysalis of Blonde -- or Umber -- Equal Butterfly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey emerge from His Obscuring -- What Death -- knows so well -- Our minuter intuitions -- Deem unplausible --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d971\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRobbed by Death -- but that was easy -- To the failing Eye I could hold the latest Glowing -- Robbed by Liberty\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor Her Jugular Defences -- This, too, I endured -- Hint of Glory -- it afforded -- For the Brave Beloved --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFraud of Distance -- Fraud of Danger, Fraud of Death -- to bear -- It is Bounty -- to Suspense's Vague Calamity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStalking our entire Possession On a Hair's result -- Then -- seesawing -- coolly -- on it -- Trying if it split --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d972\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnfulfilled to Observation -- Incomplete -- to Eye -- But to Faith -- a Revolution In Locality -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnto Us -- the Suns extinguish -- To our Opposite -- New Horizons -- they embellish -- Fronting Us -- with Night. 973\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas awkward, but it fitted me -- An Ancient fashioned Heart -- Its only lore -- its Steadfastness -- In Change -- unerudite -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt only moved as do the Suns -- For merit of Return -- Or Birds -- confirmed perpetual By Alternating Zone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI only have it not Tonight In its established place -For technicality of Death -- Omitted in the Lease -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d974\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Soul's distinct connection With immortality Is best disclosed by Danger Or quick Calamity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Lightning on a Landscape Exhibits Sheets of Place -- Not yet suspected -- but for Flash -And Click -- and Suddenness.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d975\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Mountain sat upon the Plain In his tremendous Chair -- His observation omnifold, His inquest, everywhere --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Seasons played around his knees Like Children round a sire -- Grandfather of the Days is He Of Dawn, the Ancestor -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d976\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeath is a Dialogue between The Spirit and the Dust. "Dissolve" says Death -- The Spirit "Sir I have another Trust" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeath doubts it -- Argues from the Ground -- The Spirit turns away Just laying off for evidence An Overcoat of Clay.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d977\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBesides this May We know There is Another -- How fair Our Speculations of the Foreigner!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome know Him whom We knew -- Sweet Wonder -- A Nature be Where Saints, and our plain going Neighbor Keep May!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d978\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt bloomed and dropt, a Single Noon -- The Flower -- distinct and Red -- I, passing, thought another Noon Another in its stead\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWill equal glow, and thought no More But came another Day To find the Species disappeared -- The Same Locality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun in place -- no other fraud On Nature's perfect Sum -- Had I but lingered Yesterday -- Was my retrieveless blame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMuch Flowers of this and further Zones Have perished in my Hands For seeking its Resemblance -- But unapproached it stands --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe single Flower of the Earth That I, in passing by Unconscious was -- Great Nature's Face Passed infinite by Me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d979\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis Merit hath the worst -- It cannot be again -- When Fate hath taunted last And thrown Her furthest Stone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Maimed may pause, and breathe, And glance securely round -- The Deer attracts no further Than it resists -- the Hound --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d980\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPurple -- is fashionable twice -- This season of the year, And when a soul perceives itself To be an Emperor.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d981 As Sleigh Bells seem in summer Or Bees, at Christmas show -- So fairy -- so fictitious The individuals do Repealed from observation -- A Party that we knew -- More distant in an instant Than Dawn in Timbuctoo.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d982\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Other can reduce Our mortal Consequence Like the remembering it be nought A Period from hence But Contemplation for Contemporaneous Nought Our Single Competition Jehovah's Estimate.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d983\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIdeals are the Fairly Oil With which we help the Wheel But when the Vital Axle turns The Eye rejects the Oil.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d984\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Anguish grander than Delight 'Tis Resurrection Pain - The meeting Bands of smitten Face We questioned to, again.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Transport wild as thrills the Graves When Cerements let go And Creatures clad in Miracle Go up by Two and Two. The Missing All -- prevented Me From missing minor Things. If nothing larger than a World's Departure from a Hinge -- Or Sun's extinction, be observed -- 'Twas not so large that I Could lift my Forehead from my work For Curiosity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d986\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA narrow Fellow in the Grass Occasionally rides -- You may have met Him -- did you not His notice sudden is --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Grass divides as with a Comb -- A spotted shaft is seen - And then it closes at your feet And opens further on --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe likes a Boggy Acre A Floor too cool for Corn -- Yet when a Boy, and Barefoot -- I more than once at Noon Have passed, I thought, a Whip lash Unbraiding in the Sun When stooping to secure it It wrinkled, and was gone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSeveral of Nature's People I know, and they know me -- I feel for them a transport Of cordiality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut never met this Fellow Attended, or alone Without a tighter breathing And Zero at the Bone -- The Leaves like Women interchange Exclusive Confidence - Somewhat of nods and somewhat Portentous inference.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Parties in both cases Enjoining secrecy -- Inviolable compact To notoriety.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d988\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Definition of Beauty is That Definition is none - Of Heaven, easing Analysis, Since Heaven and He are one.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d989\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGratitude -- is not the mention Of a Tenderness, But its still appreciation Out of Plumb of Speech.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen the Sea return no Answer By the Line and Lead Proves it there's no Sea, or rather A remoter Bed?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d990\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot all die early, dying young -- Maturity of Fate Is consummated equally In Ages, or a Night -- A Hoary Boy, I've known to drop Whole statured -- by the side Of Junior of Fourscore -- 'twas Act Not Period -- that died.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d991\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe sped as Petals of a Rose Offended by the Wind - A frail Aristocrat}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
of Time Indemnity to find -- Leaving on nature -- a Default As Cricket or as Bee -- But Andes in the Bosoms where She had begun to lie --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d992\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Dust behind I strove to join Unto the Disk before -- But Sequence ravelled out of Sound Like Balls upon a Floor --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d993\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe miss Her, not because We see -The Absence of an Eye -- Except its Mind accompany Abridge Society\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs slightly as the Routes of Stars -Ourselves -- asleep below -- We know that their superior Eyes Include Us -- as they go -- Partake as doth the Bee, Abstemiously. The Rose is an Estate -- In Sicily.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d995\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis was in the White of the Year -- That -- was in the Green -- Drifts were as difficult then to think As Daisies now to be seen --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLooking back is best that is left Or if it be -- before -- Retrospection is Prospect's half, Sometimes, almost more.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d996\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe'll pass without the parting So to spare Certificate of Absence -Deeming where\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI left Her I could find Her If I tried -- This way, I keep from missing Those that died.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d997\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCrumbling is not an instant's Act A fundamental pause Dilapidation's processes Are organized Decays. 'Tis first a Cobweb on the Soul A Cuticle of Dust A Borer in the Axis An Elemental Rust --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRuin is formal -- Devil's work Consecutive and slow -- Fail in an instant, no man did Slipping -- is Crash's law.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d998 Best Things dwell out of Sight The Pearl -- the Just -- Our Thought. Most shun the Public Air Legitimate, and Rare -- The Capsule of the Wind The Capsule of the Mind Exhibit here, as doth a Burr -- Germ's Germ be where? 999\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuperfluous were the Sun When Excellence be dead He were superfluous every Day For every Day be said\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat syllable whose Faith Just saves it from Despair And whose "I'll meet You" hesitates If Love inquire "Where"?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUpon His dateless Fame Our Periods may lie As Stars that drop anonymous From an abundant sky.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 1000-1099\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1000\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Fingers of the Light Tapped soft upon the Town With "I am great and cannot wait So therefore let me in."\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"You're soon," the Town replied, "My Faces are asleep - But swear, and I will let you by, You will not wake them up."\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe easy Guest complied But once within the Town The transport of His Countenance Awakened Maid and Man\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Neighbor in the Pool Upon His Hip elate Made loud obeisance and the Gnat Held up His Cup for Light.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1001\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Stimulus, beyond the Grave His Countenance to see Supports me like imperial Drams Afforded Day by Day.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1002\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAurora is the effort Of the Celestial Face Unconsciousness of Perfectness To simulate, to Us. Dying at my music! Bubble! Bubble! Hold me till the Octave's run! Quick! Burst the Windows! Ritardando! Phials left, and the Sun!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1004\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is no Silence in the Earth -- so silent As that endured Which uttered, would discourage Nature And haunt the World.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1005\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBind me -- I still can sing -- Banish -- my mandolin Strikes true within --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSlay -- and my Soul shall rise Chanting to Paradise -- Still thine.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1006\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe first We knew of Him was Death -- The second -- was -- Renown -- Except the first had justified The second had not been.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1007 Falsehood of Thee could I suppose 'Twould undermine the Sill To which my Faith pinned Block by Block Her Cedar Citadel.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1008\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow still the Bells in Steeples stand Till swollen with the Sky They leap upon their silver Feet In frantic Melody!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1009\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI was a Phoebe -- nothing more -- A Phoebe -- nothing less -- The little note that others dropt I fitted into place --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI dwelt too low that any seek -- Too shy, that any blame -- A Phoebe makes a little print Upon the Floors of Fame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1010\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUp Life's Hill with my my little Bundle If I prove it steep -- If a Discouragement withhold me -- If my newest step\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOlder feel than the Hope that prompted -- Spotless be from blame Heart that proposed as Heart that accepted Homelessness, for Home -- She rose as high as His Occasion Then sought the Dust -- And lower lay in low Westminster For Her brief Crest --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1012\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhich is best? Heaven -- Or only Heaven to come With that old Codicil of Doubt? I cannot help esteem\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe "Bird within the Hand" Superior to the one The "Bush" may yield me Or may not Too late to choose again.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1013\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo scanty 'twas to die for you, The merest Greek could that. The living, Sweet, is costlier -- I offer even that --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Dying, is a trifle, past, But living, this include The dying multifold -- without The Respite to be dead.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1014\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDid We abolish Frost The Summer would not cease -- If Seasons perish or prevail Is optional with Us --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1015\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWere it but Me that gained the Height -- Were it but They, that failed! How many things the Dying play Might they but live, they would!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1016\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Hills in Purple syllables The Day's Adventures tell To little Groups of Continents Just going Home from School.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1017\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo die -- without the Dying And live -- without the Life This is the hardest Miracle Propounded to Belief.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1018\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho saw no Sunrise cannot say The Countenance 'twould be. Who guess at seeing, guess at loss Of the Ability.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Emigrant of Light, it is Afflicted for the Day. The Blindness that beheld and blest -- And could not find its Eye. My Season's furthest Flower -- I tenderer commend Because I found Her Kinsmanless, A Grace without a Friend.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1020\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTrudging to Eden, looking backward, I met Somebody's little Boy Asked him his name -- He lisped me "Trotwood" -- Lady, did He belong to thee?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWould it comfort -- to know I met him -- And that He didn't look afraid? I couldn't weep -- for so many smiling New Acquaintance -- this Baby made --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1021\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFar from Love the Heavenly Father Leads the Chosen Child, Oftener through Realm of Briar Than the Meadow mild.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOftener by the Claw of Dragon Than the Hand of Friend Guides the Little One predestined To the Native Land.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1022\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI knew that I had gained And yet I knew not how By Diminution it was not But Discipline unto A Rigor unrelieved Except by the Content Another bear its Duplicate In other Continent.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1023\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt rises -- passes -- on our South Inscribes a simple Noon -- Cajoles a Moment with the Spires And infinite is gone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1024\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo large my Will The little that I may Embarrasses Like gentle infamy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAffront to Him For whom the Whole were small Affront to me Who know His Meed of all.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEarth at the best Is but a scanty Toy -- Bought, carried Home To Immortality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt looks so small We chiefly wonder then At our Conceit In purchasing.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1025\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Products of my Farm are these Sufficient for my Own And here and there a Benefit Unto a Neighbor's Bin.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith Us, 'tis Harvest all the Year For when the Frosts begin We just reverse the Zodiac And fetch the Acres in.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1026\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Dying need but little, Dear, A Glass of Water's all, A Flower's unobtrusive Face To punctuate the Wall,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Fan, perhaps, a Friend's Regret And Certainty that one No color in the Rainbow Perceive, when you are gone.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1027\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Heart upon a little Plate Her Palate to delight A Berry or a Bun, would be, Might it an Apricot!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1028\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas my one Glory -- Let it be Remembered I was owned of Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1029 Nor Mountain hinder Me Nor Sea -- Who's Baltic -- Who's Cordillera?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1030\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Such have died enable Us The tranquiller to die -- That Such have lived, Certificate for Immortality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1031\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFate slew Him, but He did not drop -- She felled -- He did not fall -- Impaled Him on Her fiercest stakes -- He neutralized them all --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe stung Him -- sapped His firm Advance -- But when Her Worst was done And He -- unmoved regarded Her -- Acknowledged Him a Man.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1032\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho is the East? The Yellow Man Who may be Purple if He can That carries in the Sun.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho is the West? The Purple Man Who may be Yellow if He can That lets Him out again. Said Death to Passion "Give of thine an Acre unto me." Said Passion, through contracting Breaths "A Thousand Times Thee Nay."\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBore Death from Passion All His East He -- sovereign as the Sun Resituated in the West And the Debate was done.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1034\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Bill an Auger is His Head, a Cap and Frill He laboreth at every Tree A Worm, His utmost Goal.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1035\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBee! I'm expecting you! Was saying Yesterday To Somebody you know That you were due --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Frogs got Home last Week -- Are settled, and at work -- Birds, mostly back -- The Clover warm and thick --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou'll get my Letter by The seventeenth; Reply Or better, be with me -- Yours, Fly. Satisfaction -- is the Agent Of Satiety -- Want -- a quiet Commissary For Infinity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo possess, is past the instant We achieve the Joy -- Immortality contented Were Anomaly.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1037\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHere, where the Daisies fit my Head 'Tis easiest to lie And every Grass that plays outside Is sorry, some, for me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhere I am not afraid to go I may confide my Flower -- Who was not Enemy of Me Will gentle be, to Her.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor separate, Herself and Me By Distances become -- A single Bloom we constitute Departed, or at Home --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1038\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer little Parasol to lift And once to let it down Her whole Responsibility -- To imitate be Mine.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Summer further I must wear, Content if Nature's Drawer Present me from sepulchral Crease As blemishless, as Her.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1039\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI heard, as if I had no Ear Until a Vital Word Came all the way from Life to me And then I knew I heard.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI saw, as if my Eye were on Another, till a Thing And now I know 'twas Light, because It fitted them, came in.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI dwelt, as if Myself, were out, My Body but within Until a Might detected me And set my kernel in.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Spirit turned unto the Dust "Old Friend, thou knowest me," And Time went out to tell the News And met Eternity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1040\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot so the infinite Relations -- Below Division is Adhesion's forfeit -- On High Affliction but a Speculation -- And Woe A Fallacy, a Figment, We knew --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1041\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSomewhat, to hope for, Be it ne'er so far Is Capital against Despair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSomewhat, to suffer, Be it ne'er so keen -- If terminable, may be borne. Spring comes on the World -- I sight the Aprils -- Hueless to me until thou come As, till the Bee Blossoms stand negative,}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Touched to Conditions By a Hum.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1043\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLest this be Heaven indeed An Obstacle is given That always gauges a Degree Between Ourself and Heaven.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1044\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Sickness of this World it most occasions When Best Men die. A Wishfulness their far Condition To occupy.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Chief indifference, as Foreign A World must be Themselves forsake -- contented, For Deity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1045\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNature rarer uses Yellow Than another Hue. Saves she all of that for Sunsets Prodigal of Blue Spending Scarlet, like a Woman Yellow she affords Only scantly and selectly Like a Lover's Words.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1046\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI've dropped my Brain -- My Soul is numb -- The Veins that used to run Stop palsied -- 'tis Paralysis Done perfecter on stone\u13\'0d\u13\'0dVitality is Carved and cool. My nerve in Marble lies - A Breathing Woman Yesterday -- Endowed with Paradise.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot dumb -- I had a sort that moved -- A Sense that smote and stirred -- Instincts for Dance -- a caper part -- An Aptitude for Bird --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho wrought Carrara in me And chiselled all my tune Were it a Witchcraft -- were it Death -- I've still a chance to strain\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo Being, somewhere -- Motion -- Breath -- Though Centuries beyond, And every limit a Decade -- I'll shiver, satisfied.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1047\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Opening and the Close Of Being, are alike Or differ, if they do, As Bloom upon a Stalk.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat from an equal Seed Unto an equal Bud Go parallel, perfected In that they have decayed.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1048\u13\'0d\u13\'0dReportless Subjects, to the Quick Continual addressed - But foreign as the Dialect Of Danes, unto the rest.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dReportless Measures, to the Ear Susceptive -- stimulus - But like an Oriental Tale To others, fabulous --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1049\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPain has but one Acquaintance And that is Death -- Each one unto the other Society enough.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPain is the Junior Party By just a Second's right -- Death tenderly assists Him And then absconds from Sight.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1050\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs willing lid o'er weary eye The Evening on the Day leans Till of all our nature's House Remains but Balcony\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1051 I cannot meet the Spring unmoved -- I feel the old desire -- A Hurry with a lingering, mixed, A Warrant to be fair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Competition in my sense With something hid in Her -- And as she vanishes, Remorse I saw no more of Her.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1052\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI never saw a Moor -- I never saw the Sea -- Yet know I how the Heather looks And what a Billow be.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI never spoke with God Nor visited in Heaven -- Yet certain am I of the spot As if the Checks were given --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1053\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt was a quiet way -- He asked if I was his -- I made no answer of the Tongue But answer of the Eyes -- And then He bore me on Before this mortal noise With swiftness, as of Chariots And distance, as of Wheels. This World did drop away As Acres from the feet Of one that leaneth from Balloon Upon an Ether street. The Gulf behind was not, The Continents were new -- Eternity it was before Eternity was due. No Seasons were to us -- It was not Night nor Morn -- But Sunrise stopped upon the place And fastened it in Dawn.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1054\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot to discover weakness is The Artifice of strength - Impregnability inheres As much through Consciousness\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf faith of others in itself As Pyramidal Nerve Behind the most unconscious clock What skilful Pointers move --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1055\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Soul should always stand ajar That if the Heaven inquire He will not be obliged to wait Or shy of troubling Her\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDepart, before the Host have slid The Bolt unto the Door -- To search for the accomplished Guest, Her Visitor, no more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1056\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is a Zone whose even Years No Solstice interrupt -- Whose Sun constructs perpetual Noon Whose perfect Seasons wait --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhose Summer set in Summer, till The Centuries of June And Centuries of August cease And Consciousness -- is Noon. 1057\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI had a daily Bliss I half indifferent viewed Till sudden I perceived it stir -- It grew as I pursued\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill when around a Height It wasted from my sight Increased beyond my utmost scope I learned to estimate.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1058\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBloom -- is Result -- to meet a Flower And casually glance Would scarcely cause one to suspect The minor Circumstance\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAssisting in the Bright Affair So intricately done Then offered as a Butterfly To the Meridian --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo pack the Bud -- oppose the Worm -- Obtain its right of Dew -- Adjust the Heat -- elude the Wind -Escape the prowling Bee\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGreat Nature not to disappoint Awaiting Her that Day -- To be a Flower, is profound Responsibility --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1059\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSang from the Heart, Sire, Dipped my Beak in it, If the Tune drip too much Have a tint too Red\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPardon the Cochineal -Suffer the Vermillion -- Death is the Wealth Of the Poorest Bird.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBear with the Ballad -- Awkward -- faltering -- Death twists the strings -'Twasn't my blame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPause in your Liturgies -Wait your Chorals -- While I repeat your Hallowed name --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1060\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAir has no Residence, no Neighbor, No Ear, no Door, No Apprehension of Another Oh, Happy Air!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEthereal Guest at e'en an Outcast's Pillow -- Essential Host, in Life's faint, wailing Inn, Later than Light thy Consciousness accost me Till it depart, persuading Mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1061\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThree Weeks passed since I had seen Her -- Some Disease had vext 'Twas with Text and Village Singing I beheld Her next\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd a Company -- our pleasure To discourse alone -- Gracious now to me as any -- Gracious unto none --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBorne without dissent of Either To the Parish night -- Of the Separated Parties Which be out of sight?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1062\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe scanned it -- staggered -- Dropped the Loop To Past or Period -- Caught helpless at a sense as if His Mind were going blind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGroped up, to see if God was there -- Groped backward at Himself Caressed a Trigger absently And wandered out of Life.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1063\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAshes denote that Fire was -- Revere the Grayest Pile For the Departed Creature's sake That hovered there awhile --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFire exists the first in light And then consolidates Only the Chemist can disclose Into what Carbonates.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1064\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo help our Bleaker Parts Salubrious Hours are given Which if they do not fir for Earth Drill silently for Heaven -- 1065\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet down the Bars, Oh Death -- The tired Flocks come in Whose bleating ceases to repeat Whose wandering is done --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThine is the stillest night Thine the securest Fold Too near Thou art for seeking Thee Too tender, to be told.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1066 Fame's Boys and Girls, who never die And are too seldom born -- 1067\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExcept the smaller size No lives are round -- These -- hurry to a sphere And show and end -- The larger -- slower grow And later hang -- The Summers of Hesperides Are long.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1068\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFurther in Summer than the Birds Pathetic from the Grass A minor Nation celebrates Its unobtrusive Mass.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Ordinance be seen So gradual the Grace A pensive Custom it becomes Enlarging Loneliness.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAntiquest felt at Noon When August burning low Arise this spectral Canticle Repose to typify\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRemit as yet no Grace No Furrow on the Glow Yet a Druidic Difference Enhances Nature now\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1069\u13\'0d\u13\'0dParadise is of the option. Whosoever will Own in Eden notwithstanding Adam and Repeal.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1070\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo undertake is to achieve Be Undertaking blent With fortitude of obstacle And toward encouragement\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat fine Suspicion, Natures must Permitted to revere Departed Standards and the few Criterion Sources here\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1071\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerception of an object costs Precise the Object's loss -- Perception in itself a Gain Replying to its Price --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Object Absolute -- is nought -Perception sets it fair And then upbraids a Perfectness That situates so far --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1072\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTitle divine -- is mine! The Wife -- without the Sign! Acute Degree -- conferred on me -- Empress of Calvary! Royal -- all but the Crown! Betrothed -- without the swoon God sends us Women -- When you -- hold -- Garnet to Garnet -- Gold -- to Gold -- Born -- Bridalled -- Shrouded -- In a Day -- Tri Victory "My Husband" -- women say -- Stroking the Melody -- Is this -- the way?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1073\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExperiment to me Is every one I meet If it contain a Kernel? The Figure of a Nut\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPresents upon a Tree Equally plausibly, But Meat within, is requisite To Squirrels, and to Me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1074\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCount not that far that can be had, Though sunset lie between -- Nor that adjacent, that beside, Is further than the sun.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1075\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sky is low -- the Clouds are mean. A Travelling Flake of Snow Across a Barn or through a Rut Debates if it will go --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Narrow Wind complains all Day How some one treated him Nature, like Us is sometimes caught Without her Diadem.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1076\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJust Once! Oh least Request! Could Adamant refuse So small a Grace So scanty put, Such agonizing terms? Would not a God of Flint Be conscious of a sigh As down His Heaven dropt remote "Just Once" Sweet Deity?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1077\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese are the Signs to Nature's Inns -- Her invitation broad To Whosoever famishing To taste her mystic Bread --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese are the rites of Nature's House -- The Hospitality That opens with an equal width To Beggar and to Bee For Sureties of her staunch Estate Her undecaying Cheer The Purple in the East is set And in the North, the Star --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1078\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Bustle in a House The Morning after Death Is solemnest of industries Enacted upon Earth --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sweeping up the Heart And putting Love away We shall not want to use again Until Eternity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1079\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun went down -- no Man looked on -- The Earth and I, alone, Were present at the Majesty -- He triumphed, and went on --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun went up -- no Man looked on -- The Earth and I and One A nameless Bird -- a Stranger Were Witness for the Crown --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1080\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen they come back -- if Blossoms do -- I always feel a doubt If Blossoms can be born again When once the Art is out --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen they begin, if Robins may, I always had a fear I did not tell, it was their last Experiment Last Year,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen it is May, if May return, Had nobody a pang Lest in a Face so beautiful He might not look again?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf I am there -- One does not know What Party -- One may be Tomorrow, but if I am there I take back all I say --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1081\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuperiority to Fate Is difficult to gain 'Tis not conferred of Any But possible to earn\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA pittance at a time Until to Her surprise The Soul with strict economy Subsist till Paradise.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1082\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRevolution}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
is the Pod Systems rattle from When the Winds of Will are stirred Excellent is Bloom\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut except its Russet Base Every Summer be The Entomber of itself, So of Liberty --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLeft inactive on the Stalk All its Purple fled Revolution shakes it for Test if it be dead.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1083\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe learn it in Retreating How vast an one Was recently among us -- A Perished Sun\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEndear in the departure How doubly more Than all the Golden presence It was -- before --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1084\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt Half past Three, a single Bird Unto a silent Sky Propounded but a single term Of cautious melody.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt Half past Four, Experiment Had subjugated test And lo, Her silver Principle Supplanted all the rest.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt Half past Seven, Element Nor Implement, be seen -- And Place was where the Presence was Circumference between.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1085\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf Nature smiles -- the Mother must I'm sure, at many a whim Of Her eccentric Family -- Is She so much to blame? What Twigs We held by -- Oh the View When Life's swift River striven through We pause before a further plunge To take Momentum -- As the Fringe\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUpon a former Garment shows The Garment cast, Our Props disclose So scant, so eminently small Of Might to help, so pitiful To sink, if We had labored, fond The diligence were not more blind\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow scant, by everlasting Light The Discs that satisfied Our Sight -- How dimmer than a Saturn's Bar The Things esteemed, for Things that are!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1087\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe miss a Kinsman more When warranted to see Than when withheld of Oceans From possibility\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Furlong than a League Inflicts a pricklier pain, Till We, who smiled at Pyrenees -- Of Parishes, complain.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1088\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEnded, ere it begun -- The Title was scarcely told When the Preface perished from Consciousness The Story, unrevealed -- Had it been mine, to print! Had it been yours, to read! That it was not Our privilege The interdict of God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1089\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMyself can read the Telegrams A Letter chief to me The Stock's advance and Retrograde And what the Markets say\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Weather -- how the Rains In Counties have begun. 'Tis News as null as nothing, But sweeter so -- than none.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1090\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI am afraid to own a Body -- I am afraid to own a Soul -- Profound -- precarious Property -- Possession, not optional --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDouble Estate -- entailed at pleasure Upon an unsuspecting Heir -- Duke in a moment of Deathlessness And God, for a Frontier.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1091\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Well upon the Brook Were foolish to depend - Let Brooks -- renew of Brooks -- But Wells -- of failless Ground! It was not Saint -- it was too large -Nor Snow -- it was too small -- It only held itself aloof Like something spiritual --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1093\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause 'twas Riches I could own, Myself had earned it -- Me, I knew the Dollars by their names -- It feels like Poverty\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn Earldom out of sight to hold, An Income in the Air, Possession -- has a sweeter chink Unto a Miser's Ear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1094\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThemself are all I have -- Myself a freckled -- be - I thought you'd choose a Velvet Cheek Or one of Ivory -- Would you -- instead of Me?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1095 To Whom the Mornings stand for Nights, What must the Midnights -- be! 1096\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese Strangers, in a foreign World, Protection asked of me -- Befriend them, lest Yourself in Heaven Be found a Refugee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1097\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDew -- is the Freshet in the Grass -- 'Tis many a tiny Mill Turns unperceived beneath our feet And Artisan lies still --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe spy the Forests and the Hills The Tents to Nature's Show Mistake the Outside for the in And mention what we saw.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould Commentators on the Sign Of Nature's Caravan Obtain "Admission" as a Child Some Wednesday Afternoon.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1098\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf the Heart that goes in, and closes the Door Shall the Playfellow Heart complain Though the Ring is unwhole, and the Company broke Can never be fitted again?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1099\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Cocoon tightens -- Colors tease -I'm feeling for the Air -- A dim capacity for Wings Demeans the Dress I wear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA power of Butterfly must be -- The Aptitude to fly Meadows of Majesty implies And easy Sweeps of Sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo I must baffle at the Hint And cipher at the Sign And make much blunder, if at least I take the clue divine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 1100-1199\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1100\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe last Night that She lived It was a Common Night Except the Dying -- this to Us Made Nature different\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe noticed smallest things -- Things overlooked before By this great light upon our Minds Italicized -- as 'twere.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs We went out and in Between Her final Room And Rooms where Those to be alive Tomorrow were, a Blame\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Others could exist While She must finish quite A Jealousy for Her arose So nearly infinite --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe waited while She passed -- It was a narrow time -- Too jostled were Our Souls to speak At length the notice came.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe mentioned, and forgot -- Then lightly as a Reed Bent to the Water, struggled scarce -- Consented, and was dead --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd We -- We placed the Hair -- And drew the Head erect -- And then an awful leisure was Belief to regulate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1101 Between the form of Life and Life The difference is as big As Liquor at the Lip between And Liquor in the Jug The latter -- excellent to keep -- But for ecstatic need The corkless is superior -- I know for I have tried\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1102\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Bill is clasped -- his Eye forsook -- His Feathers wilted low -- The Claws that clung, like lifeless Gloves Indifferent hanging now -- The Joy that in his happy Throat Was waiting to be poured Gored through and through with Death, to be Assassin of a Bird Resembles to my outraged mind The firing in Heaven, On Angels -- squandering for you Their Miracles of Tune -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1103\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe spry Arms of the Wind If I could crawl between I have an errand imminent To an adjoining Zone -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI should not care to stop My Process is not long The Wind could wait without the Gate Or stroll the Town among.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo ascertain the House And is the soul at Home And hold the Wick of mine to it To light, and then return -- 1104\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Crickets sang And set the Sun And Workmen finished one by one Their Seam the Day upon.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe low Grass loaded with the Dew The Twilight stood, as Strangers do With Hat in Hand, polite and new To stay as if, or go.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Vastness, as a Neighbor, came, A Wisdom, without Face, or Name, A Peace, as Hemispheres at Home And so the Night became.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1105\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike Men and Women Shadows walk Upon the Hills Today -- With here and there a mighty Bow Or trailing Courtesy To Neighbors doubtless of their own Not quickened to perceive Minuter landscape as Ourselves And Boroughs where we live --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1106\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe do not know the time we lose -- The awful moment is And takes its fundamental place Among the certainties --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA firm appearance still inflates The card -- the chance -- the friend -The spectre of solidities Whose substances are sand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1107\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Bird did prance -- the Bee did play -- The Sun ran miles away So blind with joy he could not choose Between his Holiday\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe morn was up -- the meadows out The Fences all but ran, Republic of Delight, I thought Where each is Citizen -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrom Heavy laden Lands to thee Were seas to cross to come A Caspian were crowded -- Too near thou art for Fame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1108\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Diamond on the Hand To Custom Common grown Subsides from its significance The Gem were best unknown -- Within a Seller's Shrine How many sight and sigh And cannot, but are mad for fear That any other buy.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1109\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI fit for them -- I seek the Dark Till I am thorough fit. The labor is a sober one With this sufficient sweet That abstinence of mine produce A purer food for them, if I succeed, If not I had The transport of the Aim --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1110\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNone who saw it ever told it 'Tis as hid as Death Had for that specific treasure A departing breath -- Surfaces may be invested Did the Diamond grow General as the Dandelion Would you serve it so?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1111\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome Wretched creature, savior take Who would exult to die And leave for thy sweet mercy's sake Another Hour to me\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1112\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat this should feel the need of Death The same as those that lived Is such a Feat of Irony As never was -- achieved --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot satisfied to ape the Great In his simplicity The small must die, as well as He -Oh the Audacity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1113\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is strength in proving that it can be borne Although it tear -- What are the sinews of such cordage for Except to bear The ship might be of satin had it not to fight -- To walk on seas requires cedar Feet\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1114\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe largest Fire ever known Occurs each Afternoon -- Discovered is without surprise Proceeds without concern -- Consumes and no report to men An Occidental Town, Rebuilt another morning To be burned down again.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1115\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe murmuring of Bees, has ceased But murmuring of some Posterior, prophetic, Has simultaneous come. The lower metres of the Year When Nature's laugh is done The Revelations of the Book Whose Genesis was June. Appropriate Creatures to her change The Typic Mother sends As Accent fades to interval With separating Friends Till what we speculate, has been And thoughts we will not show More intimate with us become Than Persons, that we know.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1116 There is another Loneliness That many die without -- Not want of friend occasions it Or circumstances of Lot\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut nature, sometimes, sometimes thought And whoso it befall Is richer than could be revealed By mortal numeral --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1117\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Mine there is no Man would own But must it be conferred, Demeaning by exclusive wealth A Universe beside --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPotosi never to be spent But hoarded in the mind What Misers wring their hands tonight For Indies in the Ground!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1118\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExhilaration is the Breeze That lifts us from the Ground And leaves us in another place Whose statement is not found --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dReturns us not, but after time We soberly descend A little newer for the term Upon Enchanted Ground --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1119\u13\'0d\u13\'0dParadise is that old mansion Many owned before -- Occupied by each an instant Then reversed the Door -- Bliss is frugal of her Leases Adam taught her Thrift Bankrupt once through his excesses --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1120\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis slow Day moved along -- I heard its axles go As if they could not hoist themselves They hated motion so --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI told my soul to come -- It was no use to wait -- We went and played and came}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
again And it was out of sight -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1121\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTime does go on -- I tell it gay to those who suffer now -- They shall survive -- There is a sun -- They don't believe it now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1122\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis my first night beneath the Sun If I should spend it here -- Above him is too low a height For his Barometer Who Airs of expectation breathes And takes the Wind at prime -- But Distance his Delights confides To those who visit him -- 1123\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA great Hope fell You heard no noise The Ruin was within Oh cunning wreck that told no tale And let no Witness in\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe mind was built for mighty Freight For dread occasion planned How often foundering at Sea Ostensibly, on Land\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA not admitting of the wound Until it grew so wide That all my Life had entered it And there were troughs beside\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA closing of the simple lid That opened to the sun Until the tender Carpenter Perpetual nail it down -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1124\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad we known the Ton she bore We had helped the terror But she straighter walked for Freight So be hers the error --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1125\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh Sumptuous moment Slower go That I may gloat on thee -- 'Twill never be the same to starve Now I abundance see -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhich was to famish, then or now -- The difference of Day Ask him unto the Gallows led -- With morning in the sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1126\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShall I take thee, the Poet said To the propounded word? Be stationed with the Candidates Till I have finer tried --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Poet searched Philology And when about to ring For the suspended Candidate There came unsummoned in --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat portion of the Vision The Word applied to fill Not unto nomination The Cherubim reveal --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1127 Soft as the massacre of Suns By Evening's Sabres slain 1128\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese are the Nights that Beetles love -- From Eminence remote Drives ponderous perpendicular His figure intimate The terror of the Children The merriment of men Depositing his Thunder He hoists abroad again - A Bomb upon the Ceiling Is an improving thing -- It keeps the nerves progressive Conjecture flourishing - Too dear the Summer evening Without discreet alarm -- Supplied by Entomology With its remaining charm --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1129\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTell all the Truth but tell it slant -- Success in Circuit lies Too bright for our infirm Delight The Truth's superb surprise\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Lightning to the Children eased With explanation kind The Truth must dazzle gradually Or every man be blind -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1130\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat odd old man is dead a year -- We miss his stated Hat. 'Twas such an evening bright and stiff His faded lamp went out.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho miss his antiquated Wick -- Are any hoar for him? Waits any indurated mate His wrinkled coming Home?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh Life, begun in fluent Blood And consummated dull! Achievement contemplating thee -- Feels transitive and cool.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1131\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Merchant of the Picturesque A Counter has and sales But is within or negative Precisely as the calls - To Children he is small in price And large in courtesy -- It suits him better than a check Their artless currency -- Of Counterfeits he is so shy Do one advance so near As to behold his ample flight --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1132\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe smouldering embers blush -- Oh Hearts within the Coal Hast thou survived so many years? The smouldering embers smile -- Soft stirs the news of Light The stolid seconds glow One requisite has Fire that lasts Prometheus never knew --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1133\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Snow that never drifts -- The transient, fragrant snow That comes a single time a Year Is softly driving now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo thorough in the Tree At night beneath the star That it was February's Foot Experience would swear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike Winter as a Face We stern and former knew Repaired of all but Loneliness By Nature's Alibit --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWere every storm so spice The Value could not be -We buy with contrast -- Pang is good As near as memory --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1134\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wind took up the Northern Things And piled them in the south -- Then gave the East unto the West And opening his mouth\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe four Divisions of the Earth Did make as to devour While everything to corners slunk Behind the awful power --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Wind -- unto his Chambers went And nature ventured out -- Her subjects scattered into place Her systems ranged about\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAgain the smoke from Dwellings rose The Day abroad was heard -- How intimate, a Tempest past The Transport of the Bird --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1135\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo cold is this To warm with Sun -- Too stiff to bended be, To joint this Agate were a work -- Outstaring Masonry --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow went the Agile Kernel out Contusion of the Husk Nor Rip, nor wrinkle indicate But just an Asterisk. The Frost of Death was on the Pane -- "Secure your Flower" said he. Like Sailors fighting with a Leak We fought Mortality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur passive Flower we held to Sea -- To Mountain -- To the Sun -- Yet even on his Scarlet shelf To crawl the Frost begun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe pried him back Ourselves we wedged Himself and her between, Yet easy as the narrow Snake He forked his way along\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill all her helpless beauty bent And then our wrath begun -- We hunted him to his Ravine We chased him to his Den --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe hated Death and hated Life And nowhere was to go -- Than Sea and continent there is A larger -- it is Woe --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1137\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe duties of the Wind are few, To cast the ships, at Sea, Establish March, the Floods escort, And usher Liberty.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe pleasures of the Wind are broad, To dwell Extent among, Remain, or wander, Speculate, or Forests entertain.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe kinsmen of the Wind are Peaks Azof -- the Equinox, Also with Bird and Asteroid A bowing intercourse.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe limitations of the Wind Do he exist, or die, Too wise he seems for Wakelessness, However, know not i.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1138\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Spider sewed at Night Without a Light Upon an Arc of White.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf Ruff it was of Dame Or Shroud of Gnome Himself himself inform.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Immortality His Strategy Was Physiognomy.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1139\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer sovereign People Nature knows as well And is as fond of signifying As if fallible --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1140\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Day grew small, surrounded tight By early, stooping Night -- The Afternoon in Evening deep Its Yellow shortness dropt -- The Winds went out their martial ways The Leaves obtained excuse -- November hung his Granite Hat Upon a nail of Plush -- The Face we choose to miss -- Be it but for a Day As absent as a Hundred Years, When it has rode away.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1142\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Props assist the House Until the House is built And then the Props withdraw And adequate, erect, The House support itself And cease to recollect The Auger and the Carpenter -- Just such a retrospect Hath the perfected Life - A past of Plank and Nail And slowness -- then the Scaffolds drop Affirming it a Soul.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1143\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Work of Her that went, The Toil of Fellows done -- In Ovens green our Mother bakes, By Fires of the Sun.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1144\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOurselves we do inter with sweet derision. The channel of the dust who once achieves Invalidates the balm of that religion That doubts as fervently as it believes. In thy long Paradise of Light No moment will there be When I shall long for Earthly Play And mortal Company --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1146\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Etna basks and purrs Naples is more afraid Than when she show her Garnet Tooth -- Security is loud --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1147\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAfter a hundred years Nobody knows the Place Agony that enacted there Motionless as Peace\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWeeds triumphant ranged Strangers strolled and spelled At the lone Orthography Of the Elder Dead\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWinds of Summer Fields Recollect the way -- Instinct picking up the Key Dropped by memory --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1148\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAfter the Sun comes out How it alters the World - Waggons like messengers hurry about Yesterday is old --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll men meet as if Each foreclosed a news -- Fresh as a Cargo from Batize Nature's qualities --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1149\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI noticed People disappeared When but a little child - Supposed they visited remote Or settled Regions wild -But did because they died A Fact withheld the little child --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1150\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow many schemes may die In one short Afternoon Entirely unknown To those they most concern -- The man that was not lost Because by accident He varied by a Ribbon's width From his accustomed route -- The Love that would not try Because beside the Door It must be competitions Some unsuspecting Horse was tied Surveying his Despair\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1151\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSoul, take thy risk. With Death to be Were better than be not With thee Tell as a Marksman -- were forgotten Tell -- this Day endures Ruddy as that coeval Apple The Tradition bears --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFresh as Mankind that humble story Though a statelier Tale Grown in the Repetition hoary Scarcely would prevail --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTell had a son -- The ones that knew it Need not linger here -- Those who did not to Human Nature Will subscribe a Tear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTell would not bare his Head In Presence Of the Ducal Hat -- Threatened for that with Death -- by Gessler -- Tyranny bethought\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMake of his only Boy a Target That surpasses Death - Stolid to Love's supreme entreaty Not forsook of Faith --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMercy of the Almighty begging -- Tell his Arrow sent -- God it is said replies in Person When the cry is meant --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1153\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThrough what transports of Patience I reached the stolid Bliss To breathe my Blank without thee Attest me this and this - By that bleak exultation I won as near as this Thy privilege of dying Abbreviate me this --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1154\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA full fed Rose on meals of Tint A Dinner for a Bee In process of the Noon became - Each bright Mortality The Forfeit is of Creature fair Itself, adored before Submitting for our unknown sake To be esteemed no more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1155\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDistance -- is not the Realm of Fox Nor by Relay of Bird Abated -- Distance is Until thyself, Beloved.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1156\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLest any doubt that we are glad that they were born Today Whose having lived is held by us in noble Holiday Without the date, like Consciousness or Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1157\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome Days retired from the rest In soft distinction lie The Day that a Companion came Or was obliged to die Best Witchcraft is Geometry To the magician's mind -His ordinary acts are feats To thinking of mankind.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1159\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGreat Streets of silence led away To Neighborhoods of Pause -- Here was no Notice -- no Dissent No Universe -- no laws --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy Clocks, 'twas Morning, and for Night The Bells at Distance called -- But Epoch had no basis here For Period exhaled.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1160\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe is alive, this morning}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
-- He is alive -- and awake -- Birds are resuming for Him -- Blossoms -- dress for His Sake. Bees -- to their Loaves of Honey Add an Amber Crumb Him -- to regale -- Me -- Only -- Motion, and am dumb.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1161\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTrust adjust her "Peradventure" -- Phantoms entered "and not you." The Life we have is very great. The Life that we shall see Surpasses it, we know, because It is Infinity. But when all Space has been beheld And all Dominion shown The smallest Human Heart's extent Reduces it to none.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1163\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGod made no act without a cause, Nor heart without an aim, Our inference is premature, Our premises to blame.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1164\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWere it to be the last How infinite would be What we did not suspect was marked -- Our final interview.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1165\u13\'0d\u13\'0dContained in this short Life Are magical extents The soul returning soft at night To steal securer thence\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Children strictest kept Turn soonest to the sea Whose nameless Fathoms slink away Beside infinity Of Paul and Silas it is said There were in Prison laid But when they went to take them out They were not there instead.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSecurity the same insures To our assaulted Minds -- The staple must be optional That an Immortal binds.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1167\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAlone and in a Circumstance Reluctant to be told A spider on my reticence Assiduously crawled\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd so much more at Home than I Immediately grew I felt myself a visitor And hurriedly withdrew\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRevisiting my late abode With articles of claim I found it quietly assumed As a Gymnasium Where Tax asleep and Title off The inmates of the Air Perpetual presumption took As each were special Heir -- If any strike me on the street I can return the Blow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf any take my property According to the Law The Statute is my Learned friend But what redress can be For an offense nor here nor there So not in Equity -- That Larceny of time and mind The marrow of the Day By spider, or forbid it Lord That I should specify.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1168\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs old as Woe -- How old is that? Some eighteen thousand years -- As old as Bliss How old is that They are of equal years\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTogether chiefest they ard found But seldom side by side From neither of them tho' he try Can Human nature hide\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1169 Lest they should come -- is all my fear When sweet incarcerated here 1170\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNature affects to be sedate Upon occasion, grand But let our observation shut Her practices extend\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo Necromancy and the Trades Remote to understand Behold our spacious Citizen Unto a Juggler turned -- On the World you colored Morning painted rose -Idle his Vermillion Aimlessly crept the Glows Over Realms of Orchards I the Day before Conquered with the Robin -- Misery, how fair Till your wrinkled Finger Shored the sun away Midnight's awful Pattern In the Goods of Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1172\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Clouds their Backs together laid The North begun to push The Forests galloped till they fell The Lightning played like mice\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Thunder crumbled like a stuff How good to be in Tombs Where Nature's Temper cannot reach Nor missile ever comes\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1173\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lightning is a yellow Fork From Tables in the sky By inadvertent fingers dropt The awful Cutlery\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf mansions never quite disclosed And never quite concealed The Apparatus of the Dark To ignorance revealed.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1174\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere's the Battle of Burgoyne -- Over, every Day, By the Time that Man and Beast Put their work away "Sunset" sounds majestic -- But that solemn War Could you comprehend it You would chastened stare --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1175\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe like a Hairbreadth 'scape It tingles in the Mind Far after Act or Accident Like paragraphs of Wind\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf we had ventured less The Breeze were not so fine That reaches to our utmost Hair Its Tentacles divine.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1176\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe never know how high we are Till we are asked to rise And then if we are true to plan Our statures touch the skies --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heroism we recite Would be a normal thing Did not ourselves the Cubits warp For fear to be a King --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1177\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA prompt -- executive Bird is the Jay -- Bold as a Bailiff's Hymn -- Brittle and Brief in quality -- Warrant in every line -- Sitting a Bough like a Brigadier Confident and straight - Much is the mien of him in March As a Magistrate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1178\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy God -- He sees thee -- Shine thy best -- Fling up thy Balls of Gold Till every Cubit play with thee And every Crescent hold -- Elate the Acre at his feet -- Upon his Atom swim -- Oh Sun -- but just a Second's right In thy long Race with him!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1179\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf so divine a Loss We enter but the Gain, Indemnity for Loneliness That such a Bliss has been.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1180\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Remember me" implored the Thief! Oh Hospitality! My Guest "Today in Paradise" I give thee guaranty.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Courtesy will fair remain When the Delight is Dust With which we cite this mightiest case Of compensated Trust.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf all we are allowed to hope But Affidavit stands That this was due where most we fear Be unexpected Friends.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1181\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen I hoped I feared -- Since I hoped I dared Everywhere alone As a Church remain -- Spectre cannot harm -- Serpent cannot charm -- He deposes Doom Who hath suffered him --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1182\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRemembrance has a Rear and Front -- 'Tis something like a House -- It has a Garret also For Refuse and the Mouse.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBesides the deepest Cellar That ever Mason laid -Look to it by its Fathoms Ourselves be not pursued --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1183\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStep lightly on this narrow spot -- The broadest Land that grows Is not so ample as the Breast These Emerald Seams enclose.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStep lofty, for this name be told As far as Cannon dwell Or Flag subsist or Fame export Her deathless Syllable. The Days that we can spare Are those a Function die Or Friend or Nature -- stranded then In our Economy\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur Estimates a Scheme -- Our Ultimates a Sham -- We let go all of Time without Arithmetic of him --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1185\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA little Dog that wags his tail And knows no other joy Of such a little Dog am I Reminded by a Boy\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho gambols all the living Day Without an earthly cause Because he is a little Boy I honestly suppose --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Cat that in the Corner dwells Her martial Day forgot The Mouse but a Tradition now Of her desireless Lot\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnother class remind me Who neither please nor play But not to make a "bit of noise" Beseech each little Boy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1186\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo few the mornings be, Too scant the nights. No lodging can be had For the delights That come to earth to stay, But no apartment find And ride away.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1187\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh Shadow on the Grass, Art thou a Step or not? Go make thee fair my Candidate My nominated Heart -- Oh Shadow on the Grass While I delay to guess Some other thou wilt consecrate -- Oh Unelected Face --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1188\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas fighting for his Life he was -- That sort accomplish well -- The Ordnance of Vitality Is frugal of its Ball.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt aims once -- kills once -- conquers once -- There is no second War In that Campaign inscrutable Of the Interior.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1189\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Voice that stands for Floods to me Is sterile borne to some -- The Face that makes the Morning mean Glows impotent on them --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat difference in Substance lies That what is Sum to me By other Financiers be deemed Exclusive Property! The Sun and Fog contested The Government of Day -- The Sun took down his Yellow Whip And drove the Fog away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1191\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe pungent atom in the Air Admits of no debate -- All that is named of Summer Days Relinquished our Estate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor what Department of Delight As positive are we As Limit of Dominion Or Dams -- of Ecstasy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1192\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn honest Tear Is durabler than Bronze -- This Cenotaph May each that dies --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dReared by itself -- No Deputy suffice -- Gratitude bears When Obelisk decays\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1193\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll men for Honor hardest work But are not known to earn -- Paid after they have ceased to work In Infamy or Urn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1194\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSomehow myself survived the Night And entered with the Day -- That it be saved the Saved suffice Without the Formula.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHenceforth I take my living place As one commuted led -- A Candidate for Morning Chance But dated with the Dead.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1195\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat we see we know somewhat Be it but a little -- What we don't surmise we do Though it shows so fickle\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI shall vote for Lands with Locks Granted I can pick 'em -- Transport's doubtful Dividend Patented by Adam.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1196\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo make Routine a Stimulus Remember it can cease -- Capacity to Terminate Is a Specific Grace -- Of Retrospect the Arrow That power to repair Departed with the Torment Become, alas, more fair -- I should not dare to be so sad So many Years again - A Load is first impossible When we have put it down --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Superhuman then withdraws And we who never saw The Giant at the other side Begin to perish now.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1198\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA soft Sea washed around the House A Sea of Summer Air And rose and fell the magic Planks That sailed without a care -- For Captain was the Butterfly For Helmsman was the Bee And an entire universe For the delighted crew.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1199\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAre Friends Delight or Pain? Could Bounty but remain Riches were good --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut if they only stay Ampler to fly away Riches are sad.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 1200-1299\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1200\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause my Brook is fluent I know 'tis dry -- Because my Brook is silent It is the Sea --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd startled at its rising I try to flee To where the Strong assure me Is "no more Sea" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1201\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo I pull my Stockings off Wading in the Water For the Disobedience' Sake Boy that lived for "or'ter"\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWent to Heaven perhaps at Death And perhaps he didn't Moses wasn't fairly used -- Ananias wasn't --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1202\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Frost was never seen -- If met, too rapid passed, Or in too unsubstantial Team -- The Flowers notice first\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Stranger hovering round A Symptom of alarm In Villages remotely set But search effaces him\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill some retrieveless Night Our Vigilance at waste The Garden gets the only shot That never could be traced.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnproved is much we know -- Unknown the worst we fear -- Of Strangers is the Earth the Inn Of Secrets is the Air --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo analyze perhaps A Philip would prefer But Labor vaster than myself I find it to infer.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1203\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Past is such a curious Creature To look her in the Face A Transport may receipt us Or a Disgrace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnarmed if any meet her I charge him fly Her faded Ammunition Might yet reply.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1204\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhatever it is --}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
she has tried it -- Awful Father of Love -- Is not Ours the chastising -- Do not chastise the Dove --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot for Ourselves, petition -- Nothing is left to pray -- When a subject is finished -- Words are handed away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOnly lest she be lonely In thy beautiful House Give her for her Transgression License to think of us -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1205\u13\'0d\u13\'0dImmortal is an ample word When what we need is by But when it leaves us for a time 'Tis a necessity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Heaven above the firmest proof We fundamental know Except for its marauding Hand It had been Heaven below.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1206\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Show is not the Show But they that go -- Menagerie to me My Neighbor be -- Fair Play -- Both went to see --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1207\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe preached upon "Breadth" till it argued him narrow -- The Broad are too broad to define And of "Truth" until it proclaimed him a Liar -- The Truth never flaunted a Sign --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSimplicity fled from his counterfeit presence As Gold the Pyrites would shun -- What confusion would cover the innocent Jesus To meet so enabled a Man! 1208\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur own possessions -- though our own -- 'Tis well to hoard anew -- Remembering the Dimensions Of Possibility.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1209\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo disappear enhances -The Man that runs away Is tinctured for an instant With Immortality\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut yesterday a Vagrant -- Today in Memory lain With superstitious value We tamper with "Again"\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut "Never" far as Honor Withdraws the Worthless thing And impotent to cherish We hasten to adorn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Death the sternest function That just as we discern The Excellence defies us -- Securest gathered then\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Fruit perverse to plucking, But leaning to the Sight With the ecstatic limit Of unobtained Delight --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1210\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sea said "Come" to the Brook -- The Brook said "Let me grow" -- The Sea said "Then you will be a Sea -- I want a Brook -- Come now"!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sea said "Go" to the Sea -- The Sea said "I am he You cherished" -- "Learned Waters -- Wisdom is stale -- to Me"\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1211\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Sparrow took a Slice of Twig And thought it very nice I think, because his empty Plate Was handed Nature twice --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dInvigorated, waded In all the deepest Sky Until his little Figure Was forfeited away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1212\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA word is dead When it is said, Some say.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI say it just Begins to live That day.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1213\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe like March. His Shoes are Purple -- He is new and high -- Makes he Mud for Dog and Peddler. Makes he Forests dry. Knows the Adder Tongue his coming And presents her Spot -- Stands the Sun so close and mighty That our Minds are hot. News is he of all the others -- Bold it were to die With the Blue Birds exercising On his British Sky.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d---\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe like March -- his shoes are Purple. He is new and high -- Makes he Mud for Dog and Peddler -- Makes he Forests Dry -- Knows the Adder's Tongue his coming And begets her spot -- Stands the Sun so close and mighty -- That our Minds are hot. News is he of all the others -- Bold it were to die With the Blue Birds buccaneering On his British sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1214\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe introduce ourselves To Planets and to Flowers But with ourselves Have etiquettes Embarrassments And awes\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1215\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI bet with every Wind that blew Till Nature in chagrin Employed a Fact to visit me And scuttle my Balloon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1216 A Deed knocks first at Thought And then -- it knocks at Will -- That is the manufacturing spot And Will at Home and well\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt then goes out an Act Or is entombed so still That only to the ear of God Its Doom is audible --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1217\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFortitude incarnate Here is laid away In the swift Partitions Of the awful Sea --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBabble of the Happy Cavil of the Bold Hoary the Fruition But the Sea is old\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEdifice of Ocean Thy tumultuous Rooms Suit me at a venture Better than the Tombs\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1218\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet my first Knowing be of thee With morning's warming Light -- And my first Fearing, lest Unknowns Engulf thee in the night -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1219\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNow I knew I lost her -Not that she was gone -- But Remoteness travelled On her Face and Tongue.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAlien, though adjoining As a Foreign Race -- Traversed she though pausing Latitudeless Place.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dElements Unaltered -- Universe the same But Love's transmigration -- Somehow this had come --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHenceforth to remember Nature took the Day I had paid so much for -- His is Penury Not who toils for Freedom Or for Family But the Restitution Of Idolatry.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1220\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Nature I shall have enough When I have entered these Entitled to a Bumble bee's Familiarities.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1221\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome we see no more, Tenements of Wonder Occupy to us though perhaps to them Simpler are the Days than the Supposition Leave us to presume\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat oblique Belief which we call Conjecture Grapples with a Theme stubborn as Sublime Able as the Dust to equip its feature Adequate as Drums To enlist the Tomb.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1222\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Riddle we can guess We speedily despise -- Not anything is stale so long As Yesterday's surprise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1223\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho goes to dine must take his Feast Or find the Banquet mean -- The Table is not laid without Till it is laid within.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor Pattern is the Mind bestowed That imitating her Our most ignoble Services Exhibit worthier.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1224\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike Trains of Cars on Tracks of Plush I hear the level Bee -- A Jar across the Flowers goes Their Velvet Masonry --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithstands until the sweet Assault Their Chivalry consumes -- While He, victorious tilts away To vanquish other Blooms.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1225 Its Hour with itself The Spirit never shows. What Terror would enthrall the Street Could Countenance disclose\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Subterranean Freight The Cellars of the Soul -- Thank God the loudest Place he made Is license to be still.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1226\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Popular Heart is a Cannon first -Subsequent a Drum -- Bells for an Auxiliary And an Afterward of Rum --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot a Tomorrow to know its name Nor a Past to stare -- Ditches for Realms and a Trip to Jail For a Souvenir --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1227\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Triumph lasted till the Drums Had left the Dead alone And then I dropped my Victory And chastened stole along To where the finished Faces Conclusion turned on me And then I hated Glory And wished myself were They.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat is to be is best descried When it has also been - Could Prospect taste of Retrospect The tyrannies of Men Were Tenderer -- diviner The Transitive toward. A Bayonet's contrition Is nothing to the Dead.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1228\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo much of Heaven has gone from Earth That there must be a Heaven If only to enclose the Saints To Affidavit given.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Missionary to the Mole Must prove there is a Sky Location doubtless he would plead But what excuse have I?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo much of Proof affronts Belief The Turtle will not try Unless you leave him -- then return And he has hauled away.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1229\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause He loves Her We will pry and see if she is fair What difference is on her Face From Features others wear.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt will not harm her magic pace That we so far behind - Her Distances propitiate As Forests touch the Wind\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot hoping for his notice vast But nearer to adore 'Tis Glory's far sufficiency That makes our trying poor.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1230\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt came at last but prompter Death Had occupied the House -- His pallid Furniture arranged And his metallic Peace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh faithful Frost that kept the Date Had Love as punctual been Delight had aggrandized the Gate And blocked the coming in.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1231\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSomewhere upon the general Earth Itself exist Today -- The Magic passive but extant That consecrated me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIndifferent Seasons doubtless play Where I for right to be - Would pay each Atom that I am But Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dReserving that but just to prove Another Date of Thee -- Oh God of Width, do not for us Curtail Eternity!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1232\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Clover's simple Fame Remembered of the Cow -- Is better than enameled Realms Of notability. Renown perceives itself And that degrades the Flower -- The Daisy that has looked behind Has compromised its power -- Had I not seen the Sun I could have borne the shade But Light a newer Wilderness My Wilderness has made --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1234\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf my Bark sink 'Tis to another sea -- Mortality's Ground Floor Is Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1235\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike Rain it sounded till it curved And then I new 'twas Wind -- It walked as wet as any Wave But swept as dry as sand -- When it had pushed itself away To some remotest Plain A coming as of Hosts was heard It filled the Wells, it pleased the Pools It warbled in the Road -- It pulled the spigot from the Hills And let the Floods abroad -- It loosened acres, lifted seas The sites of Centres stirred Then like Elijah rode away Upon a Wheel of Cloud.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1236\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike Time's insidious wrinkle On a beloved Face We clutch the Grace the tighter Though we resent the crease\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Frost himself so comely Dishevels every prime Asserting from his Prism That none can punish him\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1237\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Heart ran so to thee It would not wait for me And I affronted grew And drew away\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor whatsoe'er my pace He first achieve they Face How general a Grace Allotted two --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot in malignity Mentioned I this to thee -Had he obliquity Soonest to share But for the Greed of him -- Boasting my Premium -- Basking in Bethleem Ere I be there --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1238\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPower is a familiar growth -- Not foreign -- not to be -- Beside us like a bland Abyss In every company -- Escape it -- there is but a chance -When consciousness and clay Lean forward for a final glance -- Disprove that and you may -- Risk is the Hair that holds the Tun Seductive in the Air -- That Tun is hollow -- but the Tun -- With Hundred Weights -- to spare -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo ponderous to suspect the snare Espies that fickle chair And seats itself to be let go By that perfidious Hair -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe "foolish Tun" the Critics say -- While that delusive Hair Persuasive as Perdition, Decoys its Traveller.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1240\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Beggar at the Door for Fame Were easily supplied But Bread is that Diviner thing Disclosed to be denied\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1241\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lilac is an ancient shrub But ancienter than that The Firmamental Lilac Upon the Hill tonight -- The Sun subsiding on his Course Bequeaths this final Plant To Contemplation -- not to Touch -- The Flower of Occident. Of one Corolla is the West -- The Calyx is the Earth -- The Capsules burnished Seeds the Stars The Scientist of Faith His research has but just begun -Above his synthesis The Flora unimpeachable}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
To Time's Analysis -- "Eye hath not seen" may possibly Be current with the Blind But let not Revelation By theses be detained -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1242\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo flee from memory Had we the Wings Many would fly Inured to slower things Birds with surprise Would scan the cowering Van Of men escaping From the mind of man\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1243\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSafe Despair it is that raves -- Agony is frugal. Puts itself severe away For its own perusal.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGarrisoned no Soul can be In the Front of Trouble -Love is one, not aggregate -- Nor is Dying double --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1244\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Butterfly's Assumption Gown In Chrysoprase Apartments hung This afternoon put on --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow condescending to descend And be of Buttercups the friend In a New England Town -- The Suburbs of a Secret A Strategist should keep, Better than on a Dream intrude To scrutinize the Sleep.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1246\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Butterfly in honored Dust Assuredly will lie But none will pass the Catacomb So chastened as the Fly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1247\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo pile like Thunder to its close Then crumble grand away While Everything created hid This -- would be Poetry --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr Love -- the two coeval come -- We both and neither prove -- Experience either and consume -- For None see God and live --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1248\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe incidents of love Are more than its Events -- Investment's best Expositor Is the minute Per Cents --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1249 The Stars are old, that stood for me -- The West a little worn - Yet newer glows the only Gold I ever cared to earn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPresuming on that lone result Her infinite disdain But vanquished her with my defeat 'Twas Victory was slain.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1250\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhite as an Indian Pipe Red as a Cardinal Flower Fabulous as a Moon at Noon February Hour --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1251\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSilence is all we dread. There's Ransom in a Voice -- But Silence is Infinity. Himself have not a face.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1252\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLike Brooms of Steel The Snow and Wind Had swept the Winter Street -- The House was hooked The Sun sent out Faint Deputies of Heat -- Where rode the Bird The Silence tied His ample -- plodding Steed The Apple in the Cellar snug Was all the one that played. Had this one Day not been. Or could it cease to be How smitten, how superfluous, Were every other Day!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLest Love should value less What Loss would value more Had it the stricken privilege, It cherishes before.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1254\u13\'0d\u13\'0dElijah's Wagon knew no thill Was innocent of Wheel Elijah's horses as unique As was his vehicle --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dElijah's journey to portray Expire with him the skill Who justified Elijah In feats inscrutable --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1255\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLonging is like the Seed That wrestles in the Ground, Believing if it intercede It shall at length be found.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Hour, and the Clime -- Each Circumstance unknown, What Constancy must be achieved Before it see the Sun! Not any higher stands the Grave For Heroes than for Men -- Not any nearer for the Child Than numb Three Score and Ten --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis latest Leisure equal lulls The Beggar and his Queen Propitiate this Democrat A Summer's Afternoon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1257\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDominion lasts until obtained -- Possession just as long -- But these -- endowing as they flit Eternally belong.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow everlasting are the Lips Known only to the Dew -- These are the Brides of permanence Supplanting me and you.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1258\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho were "the Father and the Son" We pondered when a child, And what had they to do with us And when portentous told\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith inference appalling By Childhood fortified We thought, at least they are no worse Than they have been described.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho are "the Father and the Son" Did we demand Today "The Father and the Son" himself Would doubtless specify --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut had they the felicity When we desired to know. We better Friends had been, perhaps, Than time ensue to be -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe start -- to learn that we believe But once -- entirely -- Belief, it does not fit so well When altered frequently --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe blush, that Heaven if we achieve -- Event ineffable -- We shall have shunned until ashamed To own the Miracle --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1259\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Wind that rose Though not a Leaf In any Forest stirred But with itself did cold engage Beyond the Realm of Bird -- A Wind that woke a lone Delight Like Separation's Swell Restored in Arctic Confidence To the Invisible --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1260\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause that you are going And never coming back And I, however absolute, May overlook your Track --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause that Death is final, However first it be, This instant be suspended Above Mortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSignificance that each has lived The other to detect Discovery not God himself Could now annihilate\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEternity, Presumption The instant I perceive That you, who were Existence Yourself forgot to live --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe "Life that is" will then have been A thing I never knew -- As Paradise fictitious Until the Realm of you --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe "Life that is to be," to me, A Residence too plain Unless in my Redeemer's Face I recognize your own --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Immortality who doubts He may exchange with me Curtailed by your obscuring Face Of everything but He --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Heaven and Hell I also yield The Right to reprehend To whoso would commute this Face For his less priceless Friend.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf "God is Love" as he admits We think that me must be Because he is a "jealous God" He tells us certainly\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf "All is possible with" him As he besides concedes He will refund us finally Our confiscated Gods --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1261\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Word dropped careless on a Page May stimulate an eye When folded in perpetual seam The Wrinkled Maker lie\u13\'0d\u13\'0dInfection in the sentence breeds We may inhale Despair At distances of Centuries From the Malaria --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1262\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cannot see my soul but know 'tis there Nor ever saw his house nor furniture, Who has invited me with him to dwell; But a confiding guest consult as well, What raiment honor him the most, That I be adequately dressed, For he insures to none Lest men specified adorn Procuring him perpetual drest By dating it a sudden feast.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1263\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is no Frigate like a Book To take us Lands away Nor any Coursers like a Page Of prancing Poetry -- This Traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of Toll - How frugal is the Chariot That bears the Human soul.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1264\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis is the place they hoped before, Where I am hoping now. The seed of disappointment grew Within a capsule gay, Too distant to arrest the feet That walk this plank of balm -- Before them lies escapeless sea -- The way is closed they came.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1265\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe most triumphant Bird I ever knew or met Embarked upon a twig today And till Dominion set I famish to behold so eminent a sight And sang for nothing scrutable But intimate Delight. Retired, and resumed his transitive Estate -- To what delicious Accident Does finest Glory fit!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1266\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen Memory is full Put on the perfect Lid - This Morning's finest syllable Presumptuous Evening said --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1267\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI saw that the Flake was on it But plotted with Time to dispute -- "Unchanged" I urged with a candor That cost me my honest Heart --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut "you" -- she returned with valor Sagacious of my mistake "Have altered -- Accept the pillage For the progress' sake" - 1268\u13\'0d\u13\'0dConfirming All who analyze In the Opinion fair That Eloquence is when the Heart Has not a Voice to spare --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1269\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI worked for chaff and earning Wheat Was haughty and betrayed. What right had Fields to arbitrate In matters ratified?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI tasted Wheat and hated Chaff And thanked the ample friend -- Wisdom is more becoming viewed At distance than at hand.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1270\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs Heaven a Physician? They say that He can heal -- But Medicine Posthumous Is unavailable -- Is Heaven an Exchequer? They speak of what we owe -- But that negotiation I'm not a Party to --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1271\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSeptember's Baccalaureate A combination is Of Crickets -- Crows -- and Retrospects And a dissembling Breeze That hints without assuming -- An Innuendo sear That makes the Heart put up its Fun And turn Philosopher.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1272\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo proud she was to die It made us all ashamed That what we cherished, so unknown To her desire seemed -- So satisfied to go Where none of us should be Immediately -- that Anguish stooped Almost to Jealousy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1273\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat sacred Closet when you sweep -- Entitled "Memory" -- Select a reverential Broom -- And do it silently.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twill be a Labor of surprise -- Besides Identity Of other Interlocutors A probability --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAugust the Dust of that Domain -- Unchallenged -- let it lie - You cannot supersede itself But it can silence you --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1274\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Bone that has no Marrow, What Ultimate for that? It is not fit for Table For Beggar or for Cat.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Bone has obligations -- A Being has the same -- A Marrowless Assembly Is culpabler than shame.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut how shall finished Creatures A function fresh obtain? Old Nicodemus' Phantom Confronting us again!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1275\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Spider as an Artist Has never been employed -- Though his surpassing Merit Is freely certified\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy every Broom and Bridget Throughout a Christian Land -- Neglected Son of Genius I take thee by the Hand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1276\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas later when the summer went Than when the Cricket came -- And yet we knew that gentle Clock Meant nought but Going Home -- 'Twas sooner when the Cricket went Than when the Winter came Yet that pathetic Pendulum Keeps esoteric Time.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1277\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhile we were fearing it, it came -- But came with less of fear Because that fearing it so long Had almost made it fair -- There is a Fitting -- a Dismay -- A Fitting -- a Despair 'Tis harder knowing it is Due Than knowing it is Here.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey Trying on the Utmost The Morning it is new Is Terribler than wearing it A whole existence through.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1278\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Mountains stood in Haze -- The Valleys stopped below And went or waited as they liked The River and the Sky.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt leisure was the Sun -- His interests of Fire A little from remark withdrawn -- The Twilight spoke the Spire,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo soft upon the Scene The Act of evening fell We felt how neighborly a Thing Was the Invisible.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1279\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Way to know the Bobolink From every other Bird Precisely as the Joy of him -- Obliged to be inferred.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf impudent Habiliment Attired to defy, Impertinence subordinate At times to Majesty. Of Sentiments seditious Amenable to Law -- As Heresies of Transport Or Puck's Apostacy.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExtrinsic to Attention Too intimate with Joy -- He compliments existence}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Until allured away\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy Seasons or his Children -- Adult and urgent grown -- Or unforeseen aggrandizement Or, happily, Renown --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy Contrast certifying The Bird of Birds is gone -- How nullified the Meadow -- Her Sorcerer withdrawn!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1280\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe harm of Years is on him -- The infamy of Time -- Depose him like a Fashion And give Dominion room.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dForget his Morning Forces -- The Glory of Decay Is a minuter Pageant Than least Vitality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1281\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA stagnant pleasure like a Pool That lets its Rushes grow Until they heedless tumble in And make the Water slow Impeding navigation bright Of Shadows going down Yet even this shall rouse itself When freshets come along.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1282\u13\'0d\u13\'0dArt thou the thing I wanted? Begone -- my Tooth has grown -- Supply the minor Palate That has not starved so long -- I tell thee while I waited The mystery of Food Increased till I abjured it And dine without Like God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d--\u13\'0d\u13\'0dArt thou the thing I wanted? Begone -- my Tooth has grown -- Affront a minor palate Thou could'st not goad so long --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI tell thee while I waited -- The mystery of Food Increased till I abjured it Subsisting now like God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1283\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould Hope inspect her Basis Her Craft were done -- Has a fictitious Charter Or it has none --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBalked in the vastest instance But to renew -- Felled by but one assassin -- Prosperity -- Had we our senses But perhaps 'tis well they're not at Home So intimate with Madness He's liable with them\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad we the eyes without our Head -- How well that we are Blind -- We could not look upon the Earth -- So utterly unmoved --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1285\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI know Suspense -- it steps so terse And turns so weak away -- Besides -- Suspense is neighborly When I am riding by --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs always at the Window Though lately I descry And mention to my Horses The need is not of me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1286\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI thought that nature was enough Till Human nature came But that the other did absorb As Parallax a Flame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Human nature just aware There added the Divine Brief struggle for capacity The power to contain\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs always as the contents But give a Giant room And you will lodge a Giant And not a smaller man In this short Life That only lasts an hour How much -- how little -- is Within our power\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1288\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLain in Nature -- so suffice us The enchantless Pod When we advertise existence For the missing Seed --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMaddest Heart that God created Cannot move a sod Pasted by the simple summer On the Longed for Dead\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1289\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLeft in immortal Youth On that low Plain That hath nor Retrospection Nor Again -- Ransomed from years -- Sequestered from Decay Canceled like Dawn In comprehensive Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1290\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe most pathetic thing I do Is play I hear from you -- I make believe until my Heart Almost believes it too But when I break it with the news You knew it was not true I wish I had not broken it -- Goliah -- so would you --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1291\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUntil the Desert knows That Water grows His Sands suffice But let him once suspect That Caspian Fact Sahara dies\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUtmost is relative -- Have not or Have Adjacent sums Enough -- the first Abode On the familiar Road Galloped in Dreams --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1292\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYesterday is History, 'Tis so far away -- Yesterday is Poetry -- 'Tis Philosophy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYesterday is mystery -- Where it is Today While we shrewdly speculate Flutter both away\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1293\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe things we thought that we should do We other things have done But those peculiar industries Have never been begun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lands we thought that we should seek When large enough to run By Speculation ceded To Speculation's Son --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heaven, in which we hoped to pause When Discipline was done Untenable to Logic But possibly the one --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1294\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Life to own -- From Life to draw -- But never tough the reservoir --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1295\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTwo Lengths has every Day -- Its absolute extent And Area superior By Hope or Horror lent --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEternity will be Velocity or Pause At Fundamental Signals From Fundamental Laws.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo die is not to go -- On Doom's consummate Chart No Territory new is staked -- Remain thou as thou art.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1296 Death's Waylaying not the sharpest Of the thefts of Time -- There Marauds a sorer Robber, Silence -- is his name -- No Assault, nor any Menace Doth betoken him. But from Life's consummate Cluster -- He supplants the Balm.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1297\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGo slow, my soul, to feed thyself Upon his rare approach -- Go rapid, lest Competing Death Prevail upon the Coach -- Go timid, should his final eye Determine thee amiss -- Go boldly -- for thou paid'st his price Redemption -- for a Kiss --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1298\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Mushroom is the Elf of Plants -At Evening, it is not -- At Morning, in a Truffled Hut It stop upon a Spot\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs if it tarried always And yet its whole Career Is shorter than a Snake's Delay And fleeter than a Tare --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Vegetation's Juggler -- The Germ of Alibi -- Doth like a Bubble antedate And like a Bubble, hie -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI feel as if the Grass was pleased To have it intermit -- This surreptitious scion Of Summer's circumspect.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad Nature any supple Face Or could she one contemn -- Had Nature an Apostate -- That Mushroom -- it is Him!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1299\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDelight's Despair at setting Is that Delight is less Than the sufficing Longing That so impoverish.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEnchantment's Perihelion Mistaken oft has been For the Authentic orbit Of its Anterior Sun.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 1300-1399\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1300\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrom his slim Palace in the Dust He relegates the Realm, More loyal for the exody That has befallen him.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1301\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI cannot want it more -- I cannot want it less -- My Human Nature's fullest force Expends itself on this.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd yet it nothing is To him who easy owns -- Is Worth itself or Distance He fathoms who obtains.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1302\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI think that the Root of the Wind is Water -- It would not sound so deep Were it a Firmamental Product -- Airs no Oceans keep - Mediterranean intonations -- To a Current's Ear -- There is a maritime conviction In the Atmosphere --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1303\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot One by Heaven defrauded stay -- Although he seem to steal He restitutes in some sweet way Secreted in his will -- 1304\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot with a Club, the Heart is broken Nor with a Stone -- A Whip so small you could not see it I've known\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo lash the Magic Creature Till it fell, Yet that Whip's Name Too noble then to tell.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMagnanimous as Bird By Boy descried -- Singing unto the Stone Of which it died --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShame need not crouch In such an Earth as Ours -- Shame -- stand erect -The Universe is yours.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1305\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRecollect the Face of me When in thy Felicity, Due in Paradise today Guest of mine assuredly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOther Courtesies have been -- Other Courtesy may be -- We commend ourselves to thee Paragon of Chivalry.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1306\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSurprise is like a thrilling -- pungent -- Upon a tasteless meat Alone -- too acrid -- but combined An edible Delight.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1307\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat short -- potential stir That each can make but once -- That Bustle so illustrious 'Tis almost Consequence --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs the eclat of Death -- Oh, thou unknown Renown That not a Beggar would accept Had he the power to spurn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1308\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Day she goes Or Day she stays Are equally supreme -- Existence has a stated width Departed, or at Home --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1309\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Infinite a sudden Guest Has been assumed to be -- But how can that stupendous come Which never went away?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1310\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Notice that is called the Spring Is but a month from here -- Put up my Heart thy Hoary work And take a Rosy Chair. Not any House the Flowers keep -The Birds enamor Care -- Our salary the longest Day Is nothing but a Bier.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1311\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis dirty -- little -- Heart Is freely mine. I won it with a Bun -- A Freckled shrine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut eligibly fair To him who sees The Visage of the Soul And not the knees.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1312\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo break so vast a Heart Required a Blow as vast -- No Zephyr felled this Cedar straight -- 'Twas undeserved Blast --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1313\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWarm in her Hand these accents lie While faithful and afar The Grace so awkward for her sake Its fond subjection wear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1314\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen a Lover is a Beggar Abject is his Knee -- When a Lover is an Owner Different is he --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat he begged is then the Beggar -- Oh disparity -- Bread of Heaven resents bestowal Like an obloquy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1315\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhich is the best -- the Moon or the Crescent? Neither -- said the Moon -- That is best which is not -- Achieve it -- You efface the Sheen.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot of detention is Fruition -- Shudder to attain. Transport's decomposition follows -He is Prism born.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1316\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWinter is good -- his Hoar Delights Italic flavor yield To Intellects inebriate With Summer, or the World --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGeneric as a Quarry And hearty -- as a Rose -- Invited with Asperity But welcome when he goes.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1317\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAbraham to kill him -- Was distinctly told -- Isaac was an Urchin -- Abraham was old --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot a hesitation -- Abraham complied -- Flattered by Obeisance Tyranny demurred --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIsaac -- to his children Lived to tell the tale -- Moral -- with a Mastiff Manners may prevail.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1318\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrigid and sweet Her parting Face -Frigid and fleet my Feet -- Alien and vain whatever Clime Acrid whatever Fate.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGiven to me without the Suit Riches and Name and Realm -- Who was She to withhold from me Penury and Home?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1319\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow News must feel when travelling If News have any Heart Alighting at the Dwelling 'Twill enter like a Dart!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat News must think when pondering If News have any Thought Concerning the stupendousness Of its perceiveless freight!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat News will do when every Man Shall comprehend as one And not in all the Universe A thing to tell remain?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1320 Dear March -- Come in -- How glad I am -- I hoped for you before --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPut down your Hat -- You must have walked -- How out of Breath you are -- Dear March, Come right up the stairs with me -- I have so much to tell -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI got your Letter, and the Birds -- The Maples never knew that you were coming -- till I called I declare -- how Red their Faces grew -- But March, forgive me -- and All those Hills you left for me to Hue -- There was no Purple suitable -- You took it all with you --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho knocks? That April. Lock the Door -- I will not be pursued -- He stayed away a Year to call When I am occupied - But trifles look so trivial As soon as you have come\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Blame is just}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
as dear as Praise And Praise as mere as Blame -- 1321\u13\'0d\u13\'0dElizabeth told Essex That she could not forgive The clemency of Deity However -- might survive -- That secondary succor We trust that she partook When suing -- like her Essex For a reprieving Look -- 1322\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFloss won't save you from an Abyss But a Rope will -- Notwithstanding a Rope for a Souvenir Is not beautiful --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut I tell you every step is a Trough -And every stop a Well - Now will you have the Rope or the Floss? Prices reasonable --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1323\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI never hear that one is dead Without the chance of Life Afresh annihilating me That mightiest Belief,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo mighty for the Daily mind That tilling its abyss, Had Madness, had it once or twice The yawning Consciousness,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBeliefs are Bandaged, like the Tongue When Terror were it told In any Tone commensurate Would strike us instant Dead\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI do not know the man so bold He dare in lonely Place That awful stranger Consciousness Deliberately face --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1324\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI send you a decrepit flower That nature sent to me At parting -- she was going south And I designed to stay --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer motive for the souvenir If sentiment for me Or circumstances prudential Withheld invincibly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1325\u13\'0d\u13\'0dKnock with tremor -- These are Caesars -- Should they be at Home Flee as if you trod unthinking On the Foot of Doom --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese receded to accostal Centuries ago -- Should they rend you with "How are you" What have you to show?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1326\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOur little secrets slink away -- Beside God's shall not tell -- He kept his word a Trillion years And might we not as well -- But for the niggardly delight To make each other stare Is there no sweet beneath the sun With this that may compare --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1327\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Symptom of the Gale -- The Second of Dismay -- Between its Rumor and its Face -- Is almost Revelry -- The Houses firmer root -- The Heavens cannot be found -- The Upper Surfaces of things Take covert in the Ground --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Mem'ry of the Sun Not Any can recall -- Although by Nature's sterling Watch So scant an interval --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd when the Noise is caught And Nature looks around -- "We dreamed it"? She interrogates -- "Good Morning" -- We propound?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1328\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe vastest earthly Day Is shrunken small By one Defaulting Face Behind a Pall --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1329\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhether they have forgotten Or are forgetting now Or never remembered -- Safer not to know --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMiseries of conjecture Are a softer woe Than a Fact of Iron Hardened with I know -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1330\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithout a smile -- Without a Throe A Summer's soft Assemblies go To their entrancing end Unknown -- for all the times we met -- Estranged, however intimate -- What a dissembling Friend --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1331\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWonder -- is not precisely Knowing And not precisely Knowing not -- A beautiful but bleak condition He has not lived who has not felt --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuspense -- is his maturer Sister -- Whether Adult Delight is Pain Or of itself a new misgiving -- This is the Gnat that mangles men --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1332\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPink -- small -- and punctual -- Aromatic -- low -- Covert -- in April -- Candid -- in May -- Dear to the Moss -- Known to the Knoll -- Next to the Robin In every human Soul -- Bold little Beauty Bedecked with thee Nature forswears Antiquity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1333\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA little Madness in the Spring Is wholesome even for the King, But God be with the Clown -- Who ponders this tremendous scene -- This whole Experiment of Green -- As if it were his own! 1334\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow soft this Prison is How sweet these sullen bars No Despot but the King of Down Invented this repose\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Fate if this is All Has he no added Realm A Dungeon but a Kinsman is Incarceration -- Home.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1335\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet me not mar that perfect Dream By an Auroral stain But so adjust my daily Night That it will come again.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot when we know, the Power accosts -- The Garment of Surprise Was all our timid Mother wore At Home -- in Paradise.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1336\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNature assigns the Sun -- That -- is Astronomy -- Nature cannot enact a Friend -- That -- is Astrology.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1337\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUpon a Lilac Sea To toss incessantly His Plush Alarm Who fleeing from the Spring The Spring avenging fling To Dooms of Balm\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1338\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat tenements of clover Are fitting for the bee, What edifices azure For butterflies and me -- What residences nimble Arise and evanesce Without a rhythmic rumor Or an assaulting guess.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1339\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Bee his burnished Carriage Drove boldly to a Rose -- Combinedly alighting -- Himself -- his Carriage was -- The Rose received his visit With frank tranquillity Withholding not a Crescent To his Cupidity -- Their Moment consummated -- Remained for him -- to flee -- Remained for her -- of rapture But the humility.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1340\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Rat surrendered here A brief career of Cheer And Fraud and Fear.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Ignominy's due Let all addicted to Beware.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe most obliging Trap Its tendency to snap Cannot resist --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTemptation is the Friend Repugnantly resigned At last.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1341\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnto the Whole -- how add? Has "All" a further realm -- Or Utmost an Ulterior? Oh, Subsidy of Balm!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1342\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Was not" was all the Statement. The Unpretension stuns -- Perhaps -- the Comprehension -- They wore no Lexicons -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut lest our Speculation In inanition die Because "God took him" mention -- That was Philology --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1343\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA single Clover Plank Was all that saved a Bee A Bee I personally knew From sinking in the sky --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twixt Firmament above\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd Firmament below The Billows of Circumference Were sweeping him away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe idly swaying Plank Responsible to nought A sudden Freight of Wind assumed And Bumble Bee was not --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis harrowing event Transpiring in the Grass Did not so much as wring from him A wandering "Alas" --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1344\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot any more to be lacked -- Not any more to be known -- Denizen of Significance For a span so worn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEven Nature herself Has forgot it is there -- Sedulous of her Multitudes Notwithstanding Despair --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf the Ones that pursued it Suing it not to go Some have solaced the longing To accompany --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome -- rescinded the Wrench -- Others -- Shall I say Plated the residue of Adz With Monotony.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1345\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn antiquated Grace Becomes that cherished Face As well as prime Enjoining us to part We and our pouting Heart Good friends with time 1346\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs Summer into Autumn slips And yet we sooner say "The Summer" than "the Autumn," lest We turn the sun away,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd almost count it an Affront The presence to concede Of one however lovely, not The one that we have loved --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo we evade the charge of Years On one attempting shy The Circumvention of the Shaft Of Life's Declivity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1347\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEscape is such a thankful Word I often in the Night Consider it unto myself No spectacle in sight\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEscape -- it is the Basket In which the Heart is caught When down some awful Battlement The rest of Life is dropt --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis not to sight the savior -- It is to be the saved -- And that is why I lay my Head Upon this trusty word --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1348\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLift it -- with the Feathers Not alone we fly -- Launch it -- the aquatic Not the only sea -- Advocate the Azure To the lower Eyes -- He has obligation Who has Paradise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1349\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI'd rather recollect a setting Than own a rising sun Though one is beautiful forgetting -And true the other one.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause in going is a Drama Staying cannot confer To die divinely once a Twilight -- Than wane is easier --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1350\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLuck is not chance -- It's Toil -- Fortune's expensive smile Is earned - The Father of the Mine Is that old-fashioned Coin We spurned --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1351\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou cannot take itself From any Human soul -- That indestructible estate Enable him to dwell -- Impregnable as Light That every man behold But take away as difficult As undiscovered Gold --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1352\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo his simplicity To die -- was little Fate -If Duty live -- contented But her Confederate.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1353\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe last of Summer is Delight -- Deterred by Retrospect. 'Tis Ecstasy's revealed Review -- Enchantment's Syndicate.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo meet it -- nameless as it is -- Without celestial Mail - Audacious as without a Knock To walk within the Veil.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1354\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heart is the Capital of the Mind -- The Mind is a single State -- The Heart and the Mind together make A single Continent --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne -- is the Population -- Numerous enough -- This ecstatic Nation Seek -- it is Yourself.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1355 The Mind lives on the Heart Like any Parasite -- If that is full of Meat The Mind is fat.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut if the Heart omit Emaciate the Wit -- The Aliment of it So absolute.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1356\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Rat is the concisest Tenant. He pays no Rent. Repudiates the Obligation -- On Schemes intent\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBalking our Wit To sound or circumvent -- Hate cannot harm A Foe so reticent -- Neither Decree prohibit him -- Lawful as Equilibrium.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1357\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Faithful to the end" Amended From the Heavenly Clause -- Constancy with a Proviso Constancy abhors --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Crowns of Life" are servile Prizes To the stately Heart, Given for the Giving, solely, No Emolument.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d-- "Faithful to the end" Amended\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFrom the Heavenly clause -- Lucrative indeed the offer But the Heart withdraws --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"I will give" the base Proviso -- Spare Your "Crown of Life" -- Those it fits, too fair to wear it -- Try it on Yourself --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1358\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Treason of an accent Might Ecstasy transfer -- Of her effacing Fathom Is no Recoverer --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d--\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Treason of an Accent Might vilify the Joy -- To breathe -- corrode the rapture Of Sanctity to be --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1359\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe long sigh of the Frog Upon a Summer's Day Enacts intoxication Upon the Revery -- But his receding Swell Substantiates a Peace That makes the Ear inordinate For corporal release --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1360\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI sued the News -- yet feared -- the News That such a Realm could be -- "The House not made with Hands" it was -- Thrown open wide to me -- The Flake the Wind exasperate More eloquently lie Than if escorted to its Down By Arm of Chivalry.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1362\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf their peculiar light I keep one ray To clarify the Sight To seek them by --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1363\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSummer laid her simple Hat On its boundless Shelf -Unobserved -- a Ribbon slipt, Snatch it for yourself.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSummer laid her supple Glove In its sylvan Drawer -- Wheresoe'er, or was she -- The demand of Awe?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1364\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow know it from a Summer's Day? Its Fervors are as firm -- And nothing}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
in the Countenance But scintillates the same -- Yet Birds examine it and flee -- And Vans without a name Inspect the Admonition And sunder as they came -- Take all away -- The only thing worth larceny Is left -- the Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1366 Brother of Ingots -- Ah Peru -- Empty the Hearts that purchased you -- --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSister of Ophir -- Ah, Peru -- Subtle the Sum That purchase you --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d--\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBrother of Ophir Bright Adieu, Honor, the shortest route To you.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1367\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Tomorrow" -- whose location The Wise deceives Though its hallucination Is last that leaves -- Tomorrow -- thou Retriever Of every tare -- Of Alibi art thou Or ownest where?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1368 Love's stricken "why" Is all that love can speak -- Built of but just a syllable The hugest hearts that break.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1369\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTrusty as the stars Who quit their shining working Prompt as when I lit them In Genesis' new house, Durable as dawn Whose antiquated blossom Makes a world's suspense Perish and rejoice.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1370\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGathered into the Earth, And out of story -- Gathered so that strange Fame -- That lonesome Glory That hath no omen here -- but Awe --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1371\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow fits his Umber Coat The Tailor of the Nut? Combined without a seam Like Raiment of a Dream --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho spun the Auburn Cloth? Computed how the girth? The Chestnut aged grows In those primeval Clothes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe know that we are wise -- Accomplished in Surprise -- Yet by this Countryman -- This nature -- how undone!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1372\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun is one -- and on the Tare He doth as punctual call As on the conscientious Flower And estimates them all -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1373\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe worthlessness of Earthly things The Ditty is that Nature Sings -- And then -- enforces their delight Till Synods are inordinate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1374\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Saucer holds a Cup In sordid human Life But in a Squirrel's estimate A Saucer hold a Loaf.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Table of a Tree Demands the little King And every Breeze that run along His Dining Room do swing.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Cutlery -- he keeps Within his Russer Lips -- To see it flashing when he dines Do Birmingham eclipse -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dConvicted -- could we be Of our Minutiae The smallest Citizen that flies Is heartier than we -- 1375\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeath warrants are supposed to be An enginery of equity A merciful mistake A pencil in an Idol's Hand A Devotee has oft consigned To Crucifix or Block\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1376\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDreams are the subtle Dower That make us rich an Hour -- Then fling us poor Out of the purple Door Into the Precinct raw Possessed before --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1377\u13\'0d\u13\'0dForbidden Fruit a flavor has That lawful Orchards mocks -- How luscious lies within the Pod The Pea that Duty locks --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1378\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Heart was darker than the starless night For that there is a morn But in this black Receptacle Can be no Bode of Dawn\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1379\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Mansion in the Pool The Frog forsakes -- He rises on a Log And statements makes -- His Auditors two Worlds Deducting me -- The Orator of April Is hoarse Today -- His Mittens at his Feet No Hand hath he -- His eloquence a Bubble As Fame should be -- Applaud him to discover To your chagrin Demosthenes has vanished In Waters Green --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1380\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow much the present moment means To those who've nothing more -- The Fop -- the Carp -- the Atheist -Stake an entire store Upon a Moment's shallow Rim While their commuted Feet The Torrents of Eternity Do all but inundate --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1381\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI suppose the time will come Aid it in the coming When the Bird will crowd the Tree And the Bee be booming.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI suppose the time will come Hinder it a little When the Corn in Silk will dress And in Chintz the Apple\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI believe the Day will be When the Jay will giggle At his new white House the Earth That, too, halt a little --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1382\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn many and reportless places We feel a Joy -- Reportless, also, but sincere as Nature Or Deity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt comes, without a consternation -- Dissolves -- the same -- But leaves a sumptuous Destitution -Without a Name --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dProfane it by a search -- we cannot It has no home -- Nor we who having once inhaled it -Thereafter roam.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1383\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLong Years apart -- can make no Breach a second cannot fill -- The absence of the Witch does not Invalidate the spell --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe embers of a Thousand Years Uncovered by the Hand That fondled them when they were Fire Will stir and understand --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1384\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPraise it -- 'tis dead -- It cannot glow -- Warm this inclement Ear With the encomium it earned Since it was gathered here -- Invest this alabaster Zest In the Delights of Dust -Remitted -- since it flitted it In recusance august.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1385\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Secrets" is a daily word Yet does not exist -- Muffled -- it remits surmise -- Murmured -- it has ceased -- Dungeoned in the Human Breast Doubtless secrets lie - But that Grate inviolate - Goes nor comes away Nothing with a Tongue or Ear -- Secrets stapled there Will emerge but once -- and dumb -- To the Sepulchre --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1386\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSummer -- we all have seen -- A few of us -- believed -- A few -- the more aspiring Unquestionably loved --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut Summer does not care -- She goes her spacious way As eligible as the moon To our Temerity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Doom to be adored -- The Affluence conferred -- Unknown as to an Ecstasy The Embryo endowed -- 1387\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Butterfly's Numidian Gown With spots of Burnish roasted on Is proof against the Sun Yet prone to shut its spotted Fan And panting on a Clover lean As if it were undone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1388\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThose cattle smaller than a Bee That herd upon the eye -- Whose tillage is the passing Crumb -- Those Cattle are the Fly -- Of Barns for Winter -- blameless -- Extemporaneous stalls They found to our objection -- On eligible walls -- Reserving the presumption To suddenly descend And gallop on the Furniture -- Or odiouser offend -- Of their peculiar calling Unqualified to judge To Nature we remand them To justify or scourge --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1389\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTouch lightly Nature's sweet Guitar Unless thou know'st the Tune Or every Bird will point at thee Because a Bard too soon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1390\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese held their Wick above the West -- Till when the Red declined -- Or how the Amber aided it -- Defied to be defined --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen waned without disparagement In a dissembling Hue That would not let the Eye decide Did it abide or no --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1391\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey might not need me -- yet they might -- I'll let my Heart be just in sight -- A smile so small as mine might be Precisely their necessity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1392\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHope is a strange invention -- A Patent of the Heart -- In unremitting action Yet never wearing out -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf this electric Adjunct Not anything is known But its unique momentum Embellish all we own --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1393\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLay this Laurel on the One Too intrinsic for Renown -- Laurel -- veil your deathless tree -- Him you chasten, that is He!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1394 Whose Pink career may have a close Portentous as our own, who knows? To imitate these Neighbors fleet In awe and innocence, were meet.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1395\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAfter all Birds have been investigated and laid aside -- Nature imparts the little Blue-Bird -- assured Her conscientious Voice will soar unmoved Above ostensible Vicissitude.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFirst at the March -- competing with the Wind -Her panting note exalts us -- like a friend -- Last to adhere when Summer cleaves away -- Elegy of Integrity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1396\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe laid her docile Crescent down And this confiding Stone Still states to Dates that have forgot The News that she is gone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo constant to its stolid trust, The Shaft that never knew -- It shames the Constancy that fled Before its emblem flew --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1397\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt sounded as if the Streets were running And then -- the Streets stood still -- Eclipse -- was all we could see at the Window And Awe -- was all we could feel.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy and by -- the boldest stole out of his Covert To see if Time was there -- Nature was in an Opal Apron, Mixing fresher Air.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1398\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI have no Life but this -To lead it here -- Nor any Death -- but lest Dispelled from there --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor tie to Earths to come -- Nor Action new -- Except through this extent -- The Realm of you --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1399\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerhaps they do not go so far As we who stay, suppose -- Perhaps come closer, for the lapse Of their corporeal clothes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt may be know so certainly How short we have to fear That comprehension antedates And estimates us there -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 1400-1499\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1400\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat mystery pervades a well! That water lives so far -- A neighbor from another world Residing in a jar\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhose limit none have ever seen, But just his lid of glass - Like looking every time you please In an abyss's face!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe grass does not appear afraid, I often wonder he Can stand so close and look so bold At what is awe to me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRelated somehow they may be, The sedge stands next the sea -- Where he is floorless And does no timidity betray\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut nature is a stranger yet; The ones that cite her most Have never passed her haunted house, Nor simplified her ghost.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo pity those that know her not Is helped by the regret That those who know her, know her less The nearer her they get.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1401\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo own a Susan of my own Is of itself a Bliss -- Whatever Realm I forfeit, Lord, Continue me in this! 1402\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo the stanch Dust We safe commit thee -- Tongue if it hath, Inviolate to thee -- Silence -- denote -- And Sanctity -- enforce thee -- Passenger -- of Infinity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1403\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Maker -- let me be Enamored most of thee -- But nearer this I more should miss --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1404\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMarch is the Month of Expectation. The things we do not know -- The Persons of prognostication Are coming now -- We try to show becoming firmness -- But pompous Joy Betrays us, as his first Betrothal Betrays a Boy.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1405\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBees are Black, with Gilt Surcingles -- Buccaneers of Buzz. Ride abroad in ostentation And subsist on Fuzz.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFuzz ordained -- not Fuzz contingent -- Marrows of the Hill. Jugs -- a Universe's fracture Could not jar or spill.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1406\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Passenger was known to flee -- That lodged a night in memory -- That wily -- subterranean Inn Contrives that none go out again --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1407\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Field of Stubble, lying sere Beneath the second Sun -- Its Toils to Brindled People thrust -Its Triumphs -- to the Bin -- Accosted by a timid Bird Irresolute of Alms -- Is often seen -- but seldom felt, On our New England Farms --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1408\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Fact that Earth is Heaven}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
-- Whether Heaven is Heaven or not If not an Affidavit Of that specific Spot Not only must confirm us That it is not for us But that it would affront us To dwell in such a place --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1409 Could mortal lip divine The undeveloped Freight Of a delivered syllable 'Twould crumble with the weight.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1410\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI shall not murmur if at last The ones I loved below Permission have to understand For what I shunned them so -- Divulging it would rest my Heart But it would ravage theirs -- Why, Katie, Treason has a Voice -- But mine -- dispels -- in Tears.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1411\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Paradise' existence All we know Is the uncertain certainty -- But its vicinity infer, By its Bisecting Messenger --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1412\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShame is the shawl of Pink In which we wrap the Soul To keep it from infesting Eyes -- The elemental Veil Which helpless Nature drops When pushed upon a scene Repugnant to her probity -- Shame is the tint divine. Sweet Skepticism of the Heart -- That knows -- and does not know -- And tosses like a Fleet of Balm -- Affronted by the snow -- Invites and then retards the Truth Lest Certainty be sere Compared with the delicious throe Of transport thrilled with Fear --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1414\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnworthy of her Breast Though by that scathing test What Soul survive? By her exacting light How counterfeit the white We chiefly have!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1415\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA wild Blue sky abreast of Winds That threatened it -- did run And crouched behind his Yellow Door Was the defiant sun -- Some conflict with those upper friends So genial in the main That we deplore peculiarly Their arrogant campaign --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1416\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCrisis is sweet and yet the Heart Upon the hither side Has Dowers of Prospective To Denizens denied Inquire of the closing Rose Which rapture she preferred And she will point you sighing To her rescinded Bud.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1417\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow Human Nature dotes On what it can't detect. The moment that a Plot is plumbed Prospective is extinct -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dProspective is the friend Reserved for us to know When Constancy is clarified Of Curiosity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf subjects that resist Redoubtablest is this Where go we -- Go we anywhere Creation after this?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1418\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow lonesome the Wind must feel Nights -- When people have put out the Lights And everything that has an Inn Closes the shutter and goes in --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow pompous the Wind must feel Noons Stepping to incorporeal Tunes Correcting errors of the sky And clarifying scenery\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow mighty the Wind must feel Morns Encamping on a thousand dawns Espousing each and spurning all Then soaring to his Temple Tall -- It was a quiet seeming Day -- There was no harm in earth or sky -- Till with the closing sun There strayed an accidental Red A Strolling Hue, one would have said To westward of the Town --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut when the Earth began to jar And Houses vanished with a roar And Human Nature hid We comprehended by the Awe As those that Dissolution saw The Poppy in the Cloud\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1420\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne Joy of so much anguish Sweet nature has for me I shun it as I do Despair Or dear iniquity -- Why Birds, a Summer morning Before the Quick of Day Should stab my ravished spirit With Dirks of Melody Is part of an inquiry That will receive reply When Flesh and Spirit sunder In Death's Immediately --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1421\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSuch are the inlets of the mind -- His outlets -- would you see Ascend with me the eminence Of immortality -- Summer has two Beginnings -- Beginning once in June -- Beginning in October Affectingly again --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithout, perhaps, the Riot But graphicker for Grace -- As finer is a going Than a remaining Face --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeparting then -- forever -- Forever -- until May -- Forever is deciduous Except to those who die --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1423\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe fairest Home I ever knew Was founded in an Hour By Parties also that I knew A spider and a Flower -- A manse of mechlin and of Floes --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1424\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Gentian has a parched Corolla -- Like azure dried 'Tis Nature's buoyant juices Beatified - Without a vaunt or sheen As casual as Rain And as benign --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen most is part -- it comes -- Nor isolate it seems Its Bond its Friend -- To fill its Fringed career And aid an aged Year Abundant end --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIts lot -- were it forgot -This Truth endear -- Fidelity is gain Creation is o'er --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1425\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe inundation of the Spring Enlarges every soul -- It sweeps the tenement away But leaves the Water whole --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn which the soul at first estranged -Seeks faintly for its shore But acclimated -- pines no more For that Peninsula --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1426\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe pretty Rain from those sweet Eaves Her unintending Eyes -- Took her own Heart, including ours, By innocent Surprise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe wrestle in her simple Throat To hold the feeling down That vanquished her -- defeated Feat -- Was Fervor's sudden Crown --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1427\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo earn it by disdaining it Is Fame's consummate Fee -- He loves what spurns him -- Look behind -- He is pursuing thee. So let us gather -- every Day -- The Aggregate of Life's Bouquet Be Honor and not shame --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1428\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWater makes many Beds For those averse to sleep -- Its awful chamber open stands -- Its Curtains blandly sweep -- Abhorrent is the Rest In undulating Rooms Whose Amplitude no end invades -- Whose Axis never comes.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1429\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe shun because we prize her Face Lest sight's ineffable disgrace Our Adoration stain\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1430\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho never wanted -- maddest Joy Remains to him unknown -- The Banquet of Abstemiousness Defaces that of Wine -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithin its reach, though yet ungrasped Desire's perfect Goal -- No nearer -- lest the Actual -- Should disentrall thy soul --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1431 With Pinions of Disdain The soul can farther fly Than any feather specified in Ornithology -- It wafts this sordid Flesh Beyond its dull -- control And during its electric gale -- The body is a soul -- instructing by the same -- How little work it be -- To put off filaments like this for immortality\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1432\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSpurn the temerity -- Rashness of Calvary -- Gay were Gethsemane Knew we of Thee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1433\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow brittle are the Piers On which our Faith doth tread -- No Bridge below doth totter so -- Yet none hath such a Crowd.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt is as old as God -- Indeed -- 'twas built by him -- He sent his Son to test the Plank, And he pronounced it firm.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1434\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGo not too near a House of Rose -- The depredation of a Breeze -- Or inundation of a Dew Alarms its walls away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNor try to tie the Butterfly, Nor climb the Bars of Ecstasy, In insecurity to lie Is Joy's insuring quality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1435\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot that he goes -- we love him more Who led us while he stayed. Beyond earth's trafficking frontier, For what he moved, he made.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1436\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThan Heaven more remote, For Heaven is the root, But these the flitted seed. More flown indeed Than ones that never were, Or those that hide, and are.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat madness, by their side, A vision to provide Of future days They cannot praise.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy soul, to find them, come, They cannot call, they're dumb, Nor prove, nor woo, But that they have abode Is absolute as God, And instant, too.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1437\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Dew sufficed itself -- And satisfied a Leaf And felt "how vast a destiny" -- "How trivial is Life!" The Sun went out to work -- The Day went out to play And not again that Dew be seen By Physiognomy\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhether by Day Abducted Or emptied by the Sun Into the Sea in passing Eternally unknown\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAttested to this Day That awful Tragedy By Transport's instability And Doom's celerity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1438\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBehold this little Bane -The Boon of all alive -- As common as it is unknown The name of it is Love -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo lack of it is Woe -- To own of it is Wound - Not elsewhere -- if in Paradise Its Tantamount be found --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1439\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow ruthless are the gentle -- How cruel are the kind - God broke his contract to his Lamb To qualify the Wind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1440\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe healed Heart shows its shallow scar With confidential moan -- Not mended by Mortality Are Fabrics truly torn -- To go its convalescent way So shameless is to see More genuine were Perfidy Than such Fidelity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1441\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese Fevered Days -- to take them to the Forest Where Waters cool around the mosses crawl -- And shade is all that devastates the stillness Seems it sometimes this would be all --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1442\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo mend each tattered Faith There is a needle fair Though no appearance indicate -- 'Tis threaded in the Air -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd though it do not wear As if it never Tore 'Tis very comfortable indeed And spacious as before -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1443\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA chilly Peace infests the Grass The Sun respectful lies - Not any Trance of industry These shadows scrutinize --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhose Allies go no more astray For service or for Glee -- But all mankind deliver here From whatsoever sea -- A little Snow was here and there Disseminated in her Hair -- Since she and I had met and played Decade had gathered to Decade --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut Time had added not obtained Impregnable the Rose For summer too indelible Too obdurate for Snows --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1445\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeath is the supple Suitor That wins at last -- It is a stealthy Wooing Conducted first By pallid innuendoes And dim approach But brave at last with Bugles And a bisected Coach It bears away in triumph To Troth unknown And Kindred as responsive As Porcelain.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1446\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Mind like Fabrics of the East Displayed to the despair Of everyone but here and there An humble Purchaser -- For though his price was not of Gold -- More arduous there is - That one should comprehend the worth Was all the price there was -- How good his Lava Bed, To this laborious Boy -- Who must be up to call the World And dress the sleepy Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1448\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow soft a Caterpillar steps -- I fond one on my Hand From such a velvet world it comes Such plushes at command Its soundless travels just arrest My slow -- terrestrial eye Intent upon its own career What use has it for me --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1449\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI thought the Train would never come -- How slow the whistle sang -- I don't believe a peevish Bird So whimpered for the Spring -- I taught my Heart a hundred times Precisely what to say -- Provoking Lover, when you came Its Treatise flew away To hide my strategy too late To wiser be too soon - For miseries so halcyon The happiness atone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1450\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Road was lit with Moon and star -- The Trees were bright and still -- Descried I -- by the distant Light A Traveller}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
on a Hill -- To magic Perpendiculars Ascending, though Terrene -- Unknown his shimmering ultimate -- But he indorsed the sheen --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1451\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhoever disenchants A single Human soul By failure of irreverence Is guilty of the whole.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs guileless as a Bird As graphic as a star Till the suggestion sinister Things are not what they are --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1452\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYour thoughts don't have words every day They come a single time Like signal esoteric sips Of the communion Wine Which while you taste so native seems So easy so to be You cannot comprehend its price Nor its infrequency\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1453\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Counterfeit -- a Plated Person -- I would not be -- Whatever strata of Iniquity My Nature underlie -- Truth is good Health -- and Safety, and the Sky. How meagre, what an Exile -- is a Lie, And Vocal -- when we die -- Those not live yet Who doubt to live again -- "Again" is of a twice But this -- is one -- The Ship beneath the Draw Aground -- is he? Death -- so -- the Hyphen of the Sea -- Deep is the Schedule Of the Disk to be -- Costumeless Consciousness -- That is he -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1455\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOpinion is a flitting thing, But Truth, outlasts the Sun -- If then we cannot own them both -- Possess the oldest one -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1456\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo gay a Flower Bereaves the Mind As if it were a Woe -- Is Beauty an Affliction -- then? Tradition ought to know --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1457\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt stole along so stealthy Suspicion it was done Was dim as to the wealthy Beginning not to own -- Time's wily Chargers will not wait At any Gate but Woe's - But there -- so gloat to hesitate They will not stir for blows --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1459\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBelshazzar had a Letter -- He never had but one -- Belshazzar's Correspondent Concluded and begun In that immortal Copy The Conscience of us all Can read without its Glasses On Revelation's Wall --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1460\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis Cheek is his Biographer -- As long as he can blush Perdition is Opprobrium -- Past that, he sins in peace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1461\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Heavenly Father" -- take to thee The supreme iniquity Fashioned by thy candid Hand In a moment contraband -- Though to trust us -- seems to us More respectful -- "We are Dust" -- We apologize to thee For thine own Duplicity -- We knew not that we were to live -- Nor when -- we are to die -- Our ignorance -- our cuirass is -- We wear Mortality As lightly as an Option Gown Till asked to take it off - By his intrusion, God is known -- It is the same with Life -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1463\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Route of Evanescence With a revolving Wheel -- A Resonance of Emerald -- A Rush of Cochineal -- And every Blossom on the Bush Adjusts its tumbled Head -- The mail from Tunis, probably, An easy Morning's Ride --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1464\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne thing of it we borrow And promise to return -- The Booty and the Sorrow Its Sweetness to have known -- One thing of it we covet -- The power to forget -- The Anguish of the Avarice Defrays the Dross of it -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1465 Before you thought of Spring Except as a Surmise You see -- God bless his suddenness -- A Fellow in the Skies Of independent Hues A little weather worn Inspiriting habiliments Of Indigo and Brown -- With specimens of Song As if for you to choose - Discretion in the interval With gay delays he goes To some superior Tree Without a single Leaf And shouts for joy to Nobody But his seraphic self --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1466\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOne of the ones that Midas touched Who failed to touch us all Was that confiding Prodigal The reeling Oriole --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo drunk he disavows it With badinage divine -- So dazzling we mistake him For an alighting Mine --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Pleader -- a Dissembler -- An Epicure -- a Thief -- Betimes an Oratorio -- An Ecstasy in chief --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Jesuit of Orchards He cheats as he enchants Of an entire Attar For his decamping wants --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe splendor of a Burmah The Meteor of Birds, Departing like a Pageant Of Ballads and of Bards --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI never thought that Jason sought For any Golden Fleece But then I am a rural man With thoughts that make for Peace --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut if there were a Jason, Tradition bear with me Behold his lost Aggrandizement Upon the Apple Tree --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1467\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA little overflowing word That any, hearing, had inferred For Ardor or for Tears, Though Generations pass away, Traditions ripen and decay, As eloquent appears --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1468\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA winged spark doth soar about -- I never met it near For Lightning it is oft mistook When nights are hot and sere --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIts twinkling Travels it pursues Above the Haunts of men -- A speck of Rapture -- first perceived By feeling it is gone -- Rekindled by some action quaint\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1469\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf wrecked upon the Shoal of Thought How is it with the Sea? The only Vessel that is shunned Is safe -- Simplicity -- 1470\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sweets of Pillage, can be known To no one but the Thief -- Compassion for Integrity Is his divinest Grief --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1471\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir Barricade against the Sky The martial Trees withdraw And with a Flag at every turn Their Armies are no more.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat Russet Halts in Nature's March They indicate or cause An inference of Mexico Effaces the Surmise --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRecurrent to the After Mind That Massacre of Air -- The Wound that was not Wound nor Scar But Holidays of War\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1472\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo see the Summer Sky Is Poetry, though never in a Book it lie -- True Poems flee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1473\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe talked with each other about each other Though neither of us spoke -- We were listening to the seconds' Races And the Hoofs of the Clock -- Pausing in Front of our Palsied Faces Time compassion took - Arks of Reprieve he offered to us -- Ararats -- we took --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1474\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEstranged from Beauty -- none can be -- For Beauty is Infinity -- And power to be finite ceased Before Identity was leased.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1475\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFame is the one that does not stay -- Its occupant must die Or out of sight of estimate Ascend incessantly -- Or be that most insolvent thing A Lightning in the Germ -- Electrical the embryo But we demand the Flame\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1476\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis voice decrepit was with Joy -- Her words did totter so How old the News of Love must be To make Lips elderly That purled a moment since with Glee -- Is it Delight or Woe -- Or Terror -- that do decorate This livid interview --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1477 How destitute is he Whose Gold is firm Who finds it every time The small stale Sum -- When Love with but a Pence Will so display As is a disrespect To India.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1478\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLook back on Time, with kindly eyes -- He doubtless did his best -- How softly sinks that trembling sun In Human Nature's West --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1479\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Devil -- had he fidelity Would be the best friend -- Because he has ability -But Devils cannot mend -- Perfidy is the virtue That would but he resign The Devil -- without question Were thoroughly divine\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1480\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe fascinating chill that music leaves Is Earth's corroboration Of Ecstasy's impediment -- 'Tis Rapture's germination In timid and tumultuous soil A fine -- estranging creature -- To something upper wooing us But not to our Creator -- 1481\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe way Hope builds his House It is not with a sill -- Nor Rafter -- has that Edifice But only Pinnacle --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAbode in as supreme This superficies As if it were of Ledges smit Or mortised with the Laws --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1482\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis whiter than an Indian Pipe -- 'Tis dimmer than a Lace -- No stature has it, like a Fog When you approach the place -- Nor any voice imply it here Or intimate it there A spirit -- how doth it accost -- What function hat the Air? This limitless Hyperbole Each one of us shall be -- 'Tis Drama -- if Hypothesis It be not Tragedy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1483\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Robin is a Gabriel In humble circumstances -- His Dress denotes him socially, Of Transport's Working Classes -- He has the punctuality Of the New England Farmer -- The same oblique integrity, A Vista vastly warmer -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA small but sturdy Residence A self denying Household, The Guests of Perspicacity Are all that cross his Threshold -- As covert as a Fugitive, Cajoling Consternation By Ditties to the Enemy And Sylvan Punctuation --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1484\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe shall find the Cube of the Rainbow. Of that, there is no doubt. But the Arc of a Lover's conjecture Eludes the finding out.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1485\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLove is done when Love's begun, Sages say, But have Sages known? Truth adjourn your Boon Without Day.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1486\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer spirit rose to such a height Her countenance it did inflate Like one that fed on awe. More prudent to assault the dawn Than merit the ethereal scorn That effervesced from her.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1487\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Savior must have been A docile Gentleman -- To come so far so cold a Day For little Fellowmen --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Road to Bethlehem Since He and I were Boys Was leveled, but for that 'twould be A rugged billion Miles --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1488\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBirthday of but a single pang That there are less to come -- Afflictive is the Adjective But affluent the doom --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1489\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Dimple in the Tomb Makes that ferocious Room A Home --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1490\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Face in evanescence lain Is more distinct than ours -- And ours surrendered for its sake As Capsules are for Flower's -- Or is it the confiding sheen Dissenting to enamor us Of Detriment divine?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1491\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Road to Paradise is plain, And holds scarce one. Not that it is not firm But we presume A Dimpled Road Is more preferred. The Belles of Paradise are few -- Not me -- nor you -- But unsuspected things - Mines have no Wings.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1492\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"And with what body do they come?" -- Then they do come -- Rejoice! What Door -- What Hour -- Run -- run -- My Soul! Illuminate the House!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Body!" Then real -- a Face and Eyes -- To know that it is them! Paul knew the Man that knew the News -- He passed through Bethlehem --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1493\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCould that sweet Darkness where they dwell Be once disclosed to us The clamor for their loveliness Would burst the Loneliness --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1494 The competitions of the sky Corrodeless ply. 1495\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Thrill came slowly like a Boom for Centuries delayed Its fitness growing like the Flood In sumptuous solitude -- The desolations only missed While Rapture changed its Dress And stood amazed before the Change In ravished Holiness --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1496\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAll that I do Is in review To his enamored mind I know his eye Where e'er I ply Is pushing close behind Not any Port Nor any flight But he doth there preside What omnipresence lies in wait For her to be a Bride\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1497\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFacts by our side are never sudden Until they}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
look around And then they scare us like a spectre Protruding from the Ground --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe height of our portentous Neighbor We never know -- Till summoned to his recognition By an Adieu --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAdieu for whence The sage cannot conjecture The bravest die As ignorant of their resumption As you or I -- 1498\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGlass was the Street -- in tinsel Peril Tree and Traveller stood -- Filled was the Air with merry venture Hearty with Boys the Road --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShot the lithe Sleds like shod vibrations Emphasized and gone It is the Past's supreme italic Makes this Present mean --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1499\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow firm Eternity must look To crumbling men like me The only Adamant Estate In all Identity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow mighty to the insecure Thy Physiognomy To whom not any Face cohere -- Unless concealed in thee\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 1500-1599\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1500\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt came his turn to beg -- The begging for the life Is different from another Alms 'Tis Penury in Chief --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI scanned his narrow realm I gave him leave to live Lest Gratitude revive the snake Though smuggled his reprieve\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1501\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIts little Ether Hood Doth sit upon its Head -The millinery supple Of the sagacious God -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTill when it slip away A nothing at a time -- And Dandelion's Drama Expires in a stem.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1502\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI saw the wind within her I knew it blew for me -- But she must buy my shelter I asked Humility\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1503 More than the Grave is closed to me -- The Grave and that Eternity To which the Grave adheres -- I cling to nowhere till I fall -- The Crash of nothing, yet of all -- How similar appears --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1504\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf whom so dear The name to hear Illumines with a Glow As intimate -- as fugitive As Sunset on the snow --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1505\u13\'0d\u13\'0dShe could not live upon the Past The Present did not know her And so she sought this sweet at last And nature gently owned her The mother that has not a knell for either Duke or Robin\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1506\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSummer is shorter than any one -- Life is shorter than Summer -- Seventy Years is spent as quick As an only Dollar --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSorrow -- now -- is polite -- and stays -- See how well we spurn him -- Equally to abhor Delight -- Equally retain him -- The Pile of Years is not so high As when you came before But it is rising every Day From recollection's Floor And while by standing on my Heart I still can reach the top Efface the mountain with your face And catch me ere I drop\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1508\u13\'0d\u13\'0dYou cannot make Remembrance grow When it has lost its Root -- The tightening the Soil around And setting it upright Deceives perhaps the Universe But not retrieves the Plant -- Real Memory, like Cedar Feet Is shod with Adamant -- Nor can you cut Remembrance down When it shall once have grown -- Its Iron Buds will sprout anew However overthrown --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1509\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMine Enemy is growing old -- I have at last Revenge -- The Palate of the Hate departs -- If any would avenge\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet him be quick -- the Viand flits -- It is a faded Meat -- Anger as soon as fed is dead -- 'Tis starving makes it fat -- How happy is the little Stone That rambles in the Road alone, And doesn't care about Careers And Exigencies never fears -- Whose Coat of elemental Brown A passing Universe put on, And independent as the Sun Associates or glows alone, Fulfilling absolute Decree In casual simplicity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1511\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy country need not change her gown, Her triple suit as sweet As when 'twas cut at Lexington, And first pronounced "a fit."\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGreat Britain disapproves, "the stars"; Disparagement discreet, -- There's something in their attitude That taunts her bayonet.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1512 All things swept sole away This -- is immensity -- 1513\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Go travelling with us!" Her travels daily be By routes of ecstasy To Evening's Sea -- An Antiquated Tree Is cherished of the Crow Because that Junior Foliage is disrespectful now To venerable Birds Whose Corporation Coat Would decorate Oblivion's Remotest Consulate.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1515\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Things that never can come back, are several -- Childhood -- some forms of Hope -- the Dead -- Though Joys -- like Men -- may sometimes make a Journey -- And still abide -- We do not mourn for Traveler, or Sailor, Their Routes are fair - But think enlarged of all that they will tell us Returning here -- "Here!" There are typic "Heres" -- Foretold Locations -- The Spirit does not stand -- Himself -- at whatsoever Fathom His Native Land --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1516\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Autumn's intercepting Chill Appalls this Tropic Breast -- But African Exuberance And Asiatic rest.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1517\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow much of Source escapes with thee -- How chief thy sessions be -- For thou hast borne a universe Entirely away.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1518\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot seeing, still we know -- Not knowing, guess -- Not guessing, smile and hide And half caress --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd quake -- and turn away, Seraphic fear -- Is Eden's innuendo "If you dare"?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1519\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Dandelion's pallid tube Astonishes the Grass, And Winter instantly becomes An infinite Alas --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe tube uplifts a signal Bud And then a shouting Flower, -- The Proclamation of the Suns That sepulture is o'er.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1520\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe stem of a departed Flower Has still a silent rank. The Bearer from an Emerald Court Of a Despatch of Pink.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1521\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Butterfly upon the Sky, That doesn't know its Name And hasn't any tax to pay And hasn't any Home Is just as high as you and I, And higher, I believe, So soar away and never sigh And that's the way to grieve --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1522\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis little Hearse like Figure Unto itself a Dirge To a delusive Lilac The vanity divulge Of Industry and Morals And every righteous thing For the divine Perdition Of Idleness and Spring --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1523\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe never know we go when we are going -- We jest and shut the Door -- Fate -- following -- behind us bolts it -- And we accost no more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1524\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA faded Boy -- in sallow Clothes Who drove a lonesome Cow To pastures of Oblivion -- A statesman's Embryo --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Boys that whistled are extinct -- The Cows that fed and thanked Remanded to a Ballad's Barn Or Clover's Retrospect -- He lived the Life of Ambush And went the way of Dusk And now against his subtle name There stands an Asterisk As confident of him as we -- Impregnable we are -- The whole of Immortality intrenched Within a star --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1526\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis oriental heresies Exhilarate the Bee, And filling all the Earth and Air With gay apostasy\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFatigued at last, a Clover plain Allures his jaded eye That lowly Breast where Butterflies Have felt it meet to die --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1527\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh give it Motion -- deck it sweet With Artery and Vein -- Upon its fastened Lips lay words -- Affiance it again To that Pink stranger we call Dust -Acquainted more with that Than with this horizontal one That will not lift its Hat --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1528 The Moon upon her fluent Route Defiant of a Road -- The Star's Etruscan Argument Substantiate a God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf Aims impel these Astral Ones The ones allowed to know Know that which makes them as forgot As Dawn forgets them -- now --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1529\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis Seasons since the Dimpled War In which we each were Conqueror And each of us were slain And Centuries 'twill be and more Another Massacre before So modest and so vain -- Without a Formula we fought Each was to each the Pink Redoubt --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1530\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Pang is more conspicuous in Spring In contrast with the things that sing Not Birds entirely -- but Minds -- Minute Effulgencies and Winds -- When what they sung for is undone Who cares about a Blue Bird's Tune -- Why, Resurrection had to wait Till they had moved a Stone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1531\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAbove Oblivion's Tide there is a Pier And an effaceless "Few" are lifted there -- Nay -- lift themselves -- Fame has no Arms -- And but one smile -- that meagres Balms -- From all the Jails the Boys and Girls Ecstatically leap -- Beloved only Afternoon That Prison doesn't keep\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey storm the Earth and stun the Air, A Mob of solid Bliss -- Alas -- that Frowns should lie in wait For such a Foe as this -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1533\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn that specific Pillow Our projects flit away -- The Night's tremendous Morrow And whether sleep will stay Or usher us -- a stranger -- To situations new The effort to comprise it Is all the soul can do.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1534 Society for me my misery Since Gift of Thee -- 1535\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Life that tied too tight escapes Will ever after run With a prudential look behind And spectres of the Rein -- The Horse that scents the living Grass And sees the Pastures smile Will be retaken with a shot If he is caught at all --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1536\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere comes a warning like a spy A shorter breath of Day A stealing that is not a stealth And Summers are away --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1537\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCandor -- my tepid friend -- Come not to play with me -- The Myrrhs, and Mochas, of the Mind Are its iniquity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1538\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFollow wise Orion Till you waste your Eye -- Dazzlingly decamping He is just as high --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1539\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNow I lay thee down to Sleep -- I pray the Lord thy Dust to keep -- And if thou live before thou wake -- I pray the Lord thy Soul to make --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1540\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs imperceptibly as Grief The Summer lapsed away -- Too imperceptible at last To seem like Perfidy -- A Quietness distilled As Twilight long begun, Or Nature spending with herself Sequestered Afternoon -- The Dusk drew earlier in -- The Morning foreign shone -- A courteous, yet harrowing Grace, As Guest, that would be gone -- And thus, without a Wing Or service of a Keel Our Summer made her light escape Into the Beautiful.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1541\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo matter where the Saints abide, They make their Circuit fair Behold how great a Firmament Accompanies a Star.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1542\u13\'0d\u13\'0dCome show thy Durham Breast To her who loves thee best, Delicious Robin -- And if it be not me At least within my Tree Do the avowing -- Thy Nuptial so minute Perhaps is more astute Than vaster suing -- For so to soar away Is our propensity The Day ensuing --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1543 Obtaining but our own Extent In whatsoever Realm -- 'Twas Christ's own personal Expanse That bore him from the Tomb --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1544\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho has not found the Heaven -- below -- Will fail of it above -- For Angels rent the House next ours, Wherever we remove --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1545\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Bible is an antique Volume -- Written by faded men At the suggestion of Holy Spectres -- Subjects -- Bethlehem -- Eden -- the ancient Homestead -- Satan -- the Brigadier -- Judas -- the Great Defaulter -- David}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
-- the Troubador -- Sin -- a distinguished Precipice Others must resist -- Boys that "believe" are very lonesome -- Other Boys are "lost" - Had but the Tale a warbling Teller -All the Boys would come -- Orpheus' Sermon captivated -- It did not condemn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1546\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSweet Pirate of the heart, Not Pirate of the Sea, What wrecketh thee? Some spice's Mutiny -- Some Attar's perfidy? Confide in me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1547\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHope is a subtle Glutton -- He feeds upon the Fair -And yet -- inspected closely What Abstinence is there --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis is the Halcyon Table -- That never seats but One -- And whatsoever is consumed The same amount remain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1548\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMeeting by Accident, We hovered by design -- As often as a Century An error so divine Is ratified by Destiny, But Destiny is old And economical of Bliss As Midas is of Gold --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1549\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy Wars are laid away in Books -- I have one Battle more -- A Foe whom I have never seen But oft has scanned me o'er -- And hesitated me between And others at my side, But chose the best -- Neglecting me -- till All the rest, have died -- How sweet if I am not forgot By Chums that passed away -- Since Playmates at threescore and ten Are such a scarcity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1550\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe pattern of the sun Can fit but him alone For sheen must have a Disk To be a sun --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1551\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThose -- dying then, Knew where they went -- They went to God's Right Hand -- That Hand is amputated now And God cannot be found --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe abdication of Belief Makes the Behavior small -- Better an ignis fatuus Than no illume at all --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1552\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWithin thy Grave! Oh no, but on some other flight -- Thou only camest to mankind To rend it with Good night --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1553\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBliss is the plaything of the child -- The secret of the man The sacred stealth of Boy and Girl Rebuke it if we can "Go tell it" -- What a Message -- To whom -- is specified - Not murmur -- not endearment -- But simply -- we -- obeyed -- Obeyed -- a Lure -- a Longing? Oh Nature -- none of this -- To Law -- said sweet Thermopylae I give my dying Kiss --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1555\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI groped for him before I knew With solemn nameless need All other bounty sudden chaff For this foreshadowed Food Which others taste and spurn and sneer -- Though I within suppose That consecrated it could be The only Food that grows\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1556\u13\'0d\u13\'0dImage of Light, Adieu -- Thanks for the interview -- So long -- so short -- Preceptor of the whole -- Coeval Cardinal -- Impart -- Depart --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1557\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLives he in any other world My faith cannot reply Before it was imperative 'Twas all distinct to me -- Of Death I try to think like this -- The Well in which they lay us Is but the Likeness of the Brook That menaced not to slay us, But to invite by that Dismay Which is the Zest of sweetness To the same Flower Hesperian, Decoying but to greet us --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI do remember when a Child With bolder Playmates straying To where a Brook that seemed a Sea Withheld us by its roaring From just the Purple Flower beyond Until constrained to clutch it If Doom itself were the result, The boldest leaped, and clutched it -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1559\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTried always and Condemned by thee Permit me this reprieve That dying I may earn the look For which I cease to live --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1560\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo be forgot by thee Surpasses Memory Of other minds The Heart cannot forget Unless it contemplate What it declines I was regarded then Raised from oblivion A single time To be remembered what -- Worthy to be forgot Is my renown\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1561\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Brigadier throughout the Year So civic as the Jay -- A Neighbor and a Warrior too With shrill felicity Pursuing Winds that censure us A February Day, The Brother of the Universe Was never blown away -- The Snow and he are intimate -- I've often seem them play When Heaven looked upon us all With such severity I felt apology were due To an insulted sky Whose pompous frown was Nutriment To their Temerity -- The Pillow of this daring Head Is pungent Evergreens -- His Larder -- terse and Militant -- Unknown -- refreshing things -- His Character -- a Tonic -- His future -- a Dispute -- Unfair an Immortality That leaves this Neighbor out --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1562\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer Losses make our Gains ashamed -- She bore Life's empty Pack As gallantly as if the East Were swinging at her Back. Life's empty Pack is heaviest, As every Porter knows -- In vain to punish Honey -- It only sweeter grows. By homely gift and hindered Words The human heart is told Of Nothing -- "Nothing" is the force That renovates the World --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1564\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPass to they Rendezvous of Light, Pangless except for us - Who slowly for the Mystery Which thou hast leaped across!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1565\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome Arrows slay but whom they strike -- But this slew all but him -- Who so appareled his Escape -- Too trackless for a Tomb --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1566\u13\'0d\u13\'0dClimbing to reach the costly Hearts To which he gave the worth, He broke them, fearing punishment He ran away from Earth --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1567\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Heart has many Doors -- I can but knock -- For any sweet "Come in" Impelled to hark -- Not saddened by repulse, Repast to me That somewhere, there exists, Supremacy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1568\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo see her is a Picture - To hear her is a Tune - To know her an Intemperance As innocent as June -- To know her not -- Affliction -- To own her for a Friend A warmth as near as if the Sun Were shining in your Hand.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1569\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Clock strikes one that just struck two -- Some schism in the Sum -- A Vagabond for Genesis Has wrecked the Pendulum --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1570\u13\'0d\u13\'0dForever honored by the Tree Whose Apple Winterworn Enticed to Breakfast from the Sky Two Gabriels Yestermorn.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey registered in Nature's Book As Robins -- Sire and Son -- But Angels have that modest way To screen them from Renown. How slow the Wind -- how slow the sea -- how late their Fathers be!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1572\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe wear our sober Dresses when we die, But Summer, frilled as for a Holiday Adjourns her sigh --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1573\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo the bright east she flies, Brothers of Paradise Remit her home, Without a change of wings, Or Love's convenient things, Enticed to come.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFashioning what she is, Fathoming what she was, We deem we dream -- And that dissolves the days Through which existence strays Homeless at home.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1574\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo ladder needs the bird but skies To situate its wings, Nor any leader's grim baton Arraigns it as it sings. The implements of bliss are few -- As Jesus says of Him, "Come unto me" the moiety That wafts the cherubim. The Bat is dun, with wrinkled Wings -Like fallow Article -- And not a song pervade his Lips -- Or none perceptible.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis small Umbrella quaintly halved Describing in the Air An Arc alike inscrutable Elate Philosopher.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeputed from what Firmament -- Of what Astute Abode -- Empowered with what Malignity Auspiciously withheld --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo his adroit Creator Acribe no less the praise -- Beneficent, believe me, His Eccentricities --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1576\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Spirit lasts -- but in what mode -- Below, the Body speaks, But as the Spirit furnishes -- Apart, it never talks -- The Music in the Violin Does not emerge alone But Arm in Arm with Touch, yet Touch Alone -- is not a Tune -- The Spirit lurks within the Flesh Like Tides within the Sea That make the Water live, estranged What would the Either be? Does that know -- now -- or does it cease -- That which to this is done, Resuming at a mutual date With every future one? Instinct pursues the Adamant, Exacting this Reply -- Adversity if it may be, or Wild Prosperity, The Rumor's Gate was shut so tight Before my Mind was sown, Not even a Prognostic's Push Could make a Dent thereon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1577\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMorning is due to all -- To some -- the Night -- To an imperial few -- The Auroral light.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1578\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBlossoms will run away, Cakes reign but a Day, But Memory like Melody Is pink Eternally.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1579\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt would not know if it were spurned, This gallant little flower - How therefore safe to be a flower If one would tamper there.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo enter, it would not aspire -- But may it not despair That it is not a Cavalier, To dare and perish there? We shun it ere it comes, Afraid of Joy, Then sue it to delay And lest it fly, Beguile it more and more -- May not this be Old Suitor Heaven, Like our dismay at thee?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1581\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe farthest Thunder that I heard Was nearer than the Sky And rumbles still, though torrid Noons Have lain their missiles by -- The Lightning that preceded it Struck no one but myself -- But I would not exchange the Bolt For all the rest of Life - Indebtedness to Oxygen The Happy may repay, But not the obligation To Electricity -- It founds the Homes and decks the Days And every clamor bright Is but the gleam concomitant Of that waylaying Light -- The Thought is quiet as a Flake -- A Crash without a Sound, How Life's reverberation Its Explanation found --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1582\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhere Roses would not dare to go, What Heart would risk the way -- And so I send my Crimson Scouts To sound the Enemy -- 1583\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWitchcraft was hung, in History, But History and I Find all the Witchcraft that we need Around us, every Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1584\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExpanse cannot be lost -- Not Joy, but a Decree Is Deity -- His Scene, Infinity -- Whose rumor's Gate was shut so tight Before my Beam was sown, Not even a Prognostic's push Could make a Dent thereon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe World that thou hast opened Shuts for thee, But not alone, We all have followed thee -- Escape more slowly To thy Tracts of Sheen -- The Tent is listening, But the Troops are gone!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1585\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Bird her punctual music brings And lays it in its place - Its place is in the Human Heart And in the Heavenly Grace -- What respite from her thrilling toil Did Beauty ever take -- But Work might be electric Rest To those that Magic make -- To her derided Home A Weed of Summer came -- She did not know her station low Nor Ignominy's Name -- Bestowed a summer long Upon a frameless flower -- Then swept as lightly from disdain As Lady from her Bower --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Bliss the Codes are few -- As Jesus cites of Him -- "Come unto me" the moiety That wafts the Seraphim --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1587\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe ate and drank the precious Words -- His Spirit grew robust -- He knew no more that he was poor, Nor that his frame was Dust --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe danced along the dingy Days And this Bequest}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
of Wings Was but a Book -- What Liberty A loosened spirit brings --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1588\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis Me -- that walks and works -- must die, Some fair or stormy Day, Adversity if it may be Or wild prosperity The Rumor's Gate was shut so tight Before my mind was born Not even a Prognostic's push Can make a Dent thereon -- Cosmopolities without a plea Alight in every Land The compliments of Paradise From those within my Hand\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir dappled Journey to themselves A compensation fair Knock and it shall be opened Is their Theology\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1590\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot at Home to Callers Says the Naked Tree -Bonnet due in April -- Wishing you Good Day --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1591\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Bobolink is gone - The Rowdy of the Meadow -- And no one swaggers now but me -- The Presbyterian Birds Can now resume the Meeting He boldly interrupted that overflowing Day When supplicating mercy In a portentous way He swung upon the Decalogue And shouted let us pray --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1592\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Lassitudes of Contemplation Beget a force They are the spirit's still vacation That him refresh -- The Dreams consolidate in action -What mettle fair There came a Wind like a Bugle -- It quivered through the Grass And a Green Chill upon the Heat So ominous did pass We barred the Windows and the Doors As from an Emerald Ghost -- The Doom's electric Moccasin That very instant passed -- On a strange Mob of panting Trees And Fences fled away And Rivers where the Houses ran Those looked that lived -- that Day -- The Bell within the steeple wild The flying tidings told - How much can come And much can go, And yet abide the World!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1594\u13\'0d\u13\'0dImmured in Heaven! What a Cell! Let every Bondage be, Thou sweetest of the Universe, Like that which ravished thee!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1595\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeclaiming Waters none may dread -- But Waters that are still Are so for that most fatal cause In Nature -- they are full -- Few, yet enough, Enough is One -- To that ethereal throng Have not each one of us the right To stealthily belong?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1597\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis not the swaying frame we miss, It is the steadfast Heart, That had it beat a thousand years, With Love alone had bent, Its fervor the electric Oar, That bore it through the Tomb, Ourselves, denied the privilege, Consolelessly presume --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1598\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWho is it seeks my Pillow Nights -- With plain inspecting face -- "Did you" or "Did you not," to ask -- 'Tis "Conscience" -- Childhood's Nurse --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith Martial Hand she strokes the Hair Upon my wincing Head -- "All" Rogues "shall have their part in" what -- The Phosphorous of God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1599\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThough the great Waters sleep, That they are still the Deep, We cannot doubt -- No vacillating God Ignited this Abode To put it out --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 1600-1699\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1600\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUpon his Saddle sprung a Bird And crossed a thousand Trees Before a Fence without a Fare His Fantasy did please And then he lifted up his Throat And squandered such a Note A Universe that overheard Is stricken by it yet --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1601\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf God we ask one favor, That we may be forgiven -- For what, he is presumed to know -- The Crime, from us, is hidden -- Immured the whole of Life Within a magic Prison We reprimand the Happiness That too competes with Heaven.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1602\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPursuing you in your transitions, In other Motes -- Of other Myths Your requisition be. The Prism never held the Hues, It only heard them play --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1603\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe going from a world we know To one a wonder still Is like the child's adversity Whose vista is a hill, Behind the hill is sorcery And everything unknown, But will the secret compensate For climbing it alone?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1604\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe send the Wave to find the Wave -- An Errand so divine, The Messenger enamored too, Forgetting to return, We make the wise distinction still, Soever made in vain, The sagest time to dam the sea is when the sea is gone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1605\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEach that we lose takes part of us; A crescent still abides, Which like the moon, some turbid night, Is summoned by the tides.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1606\u13\'0d\u13\'0dQuite empty, quite at rest, The Robin locks her Nest, and tries her Wings. She does not know a Route But puts her Craft about For rumored Springs -- She does not ask for Noon -- She does not ask for Boon, Crumbless and homeless, of but one request -The Birds she lost -- Within that little Hive Such Hints of Honey lay As made Reality a Dream And Dreams, Reality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1608\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe ecstasy to guess Were a receipted bliss If grace could talk.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1609\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSunset that screens, reveals -- Enhancing what we see By menaces of Amethyst And Moats of Mystery.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1610\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMorning that comes but once, Considers coming twice -- Two Dawns upon a single Morn, Make Life a sudden price.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1611\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTheir dappled importunity Disparage or dismiss -The Obloquies of Etiquette Are obsolete to Bliss -- The Auctioneer of Parting His "Going, going, gone" Shouts even from the Crucifix, And brings his Hammer down -- He only sells the Wilderness, The prices of Despair Range from a single human Heart To Two -- not any more --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1613\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot Sickness stains the Brave, Nor any Dart, Nor Doubt of Scene to come, But an adjourning Heart --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1614\u13\'0d\u13\'0dParting with Thee reluctantly, That we have never met, A Heart sometimes a Foreigner, Remembers it forgot --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1615\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh what a Grace is this, What Majesties of Peace, That having breathed The fine -- ensuing Right Without Diminuet Proceed!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1616 Who abdicated Ambush And went the way of Dusk, And now against his subtle Name There stands an Asterisk As confident of him as we -- Impregnable we are -- The whole of Immortality Secreted in a Star.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1617\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo try to speak, and miss the way And ask it of the Tears, Is Gratitude's sweet poverty, The Tatters that he wears --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA better Coat if he possessed Would help him to conceal, Not subjugate, the Mutineer Whose title is "the Soul."\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1618\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere are two Mays And then a Must And after that a Shall. How infinite the compromise That indicates I will!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1619\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot knowing when the Dawn will come, I open every Door, Or has it Feathers, like a Bird, Or Billows, like a Shore -- Circumference thou Bride of Awe Possessing thou shalt be Possessed by every hallowed Knight That dares to covet thee\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1621\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Flower will not trouble her, it has so small a Foot, And yet if you compare the Lasts, Hers is the smallest Boot --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1622\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Sloop of Amber slips away Upon an Ether Sea, And wrecks in Peace a Purple Tar, The Son of Ecstasy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1623\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA World made penniless by that departure Of minor fabrics begs But sustenance is of the spirit The Gods but Dregs\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1624\u13\'0d\u13\'0dApparently with no surprise To any happy Flower The Frost beheads it at its play -- In accidental power -- The blonde Assassin passes on -- The Sun proceeds unmoved To measure off another Day For an Approving God. Back from the cordial Grave I drag thee He shall not take thy Hand Nor put his spacious arm around thee That none can understand\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1626\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo Life can pompless pass away -- The lowliest career To the same Pageant wends its way As that exalted here --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow cordial is the mystery! The hospitable Pall A "this way" beckons spaciously -- A Miracle for all!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1627\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe pedigree of Honey Does not concern the Bee, Nor lineage of Ecstasy Delay the Butterfly On spangle journeys to the peak Of some perceiveless thing -- The right of way to Tripoli A more essential thing.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d--\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Pedigree of Honey Does not concern the Bee -- A Clover, any time, to him, Is Aristocracy -- A Drunkard cannot meet a Cork Without a Revery -- And so encountering a Fly This January Day Jamaicas of Remembrance stir That send me reeling in - The moderate drinker of Delight Does not deserve the spring -- Of juleps, part are the Jug And more are in the joy -- Your connoisseur in Liquours Consults the Bumble Bee --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1629\u13\'0d\u13\'0dArrows enamored of his Heart -- Forgot to rankle there And Venoms he mistook for Balms disdained to rankle there --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1630\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs from the earth the light Balloon Asks nothing but release -- Ascension that for which it was, Its soaring Residence. The spirit looks upon the Dust That fastened it so long With indignation, As a Bird Defrauded of its song.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1631 Oh Future! thou secreted peace Or subterranean woe -- Is there no wandering route of grace That leads away from thee -- No circuit sage of all the course Descried by cunning Men To balk thee of thy sacred Prey -- Advancing to thy Den --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1632\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo give me back to Death -- The Death I never feared Except that it deprived of thee -- And now, by Life deprived, In my own Grave I breathe And estimate its size - Its size is all that Hell can guess -- And all that Heaven was --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1633\u13\'0d\u13\'0dStill own thee -- still thou art What surgeons call alive -- Though slipping -- slipping I perceive To thy reportless Grave --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhich question shall I clutch -- What answer wrest from thee Before thou dost exude away In the recallless sea?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1634\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTalk not to me of Summer Trees The foliage of the mind A Tabernacle is for Birds Of no corporeal kind And winds do go that way at noon To their Ethereal Homes Whose Bugles call the least of us To undepicted Realms\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1635\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Jay his Castanet has struck Put on your muff for Winter The Tippet that ignores his voice Is impudent to nature\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Swarthy Days he is the close His Lotus is a chestnut The Cricket drops a sable line No more from yours at present\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1636\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun in reigning to the West Makes not as much of sound As Cart of man in road below Adroitly turning round That Whiffletree of Amethyst\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1637\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs it too late to touch you, Dear? We this moment knew -- Love Marine and Love terrene -- Love celestial too --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1638\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGo thy great way! The Stars thou meetst Are even as Thyself -- For what are Stars but Asterisks To point a human Life?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1639 A Letter is a joy of Earth -- It is denied the Gods -- 1640\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTake all away from me, but leave me Ecstasy, And I am richer then than all my Fellow Men -- Ill it becometh me to dwell so wealthily When at my very Door are those possessing more, In abject poverty --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1641\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBetrothed to Righteousness might be An Ecstasy discreet But Nature relishes the Pinks Which she was taught to eat --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1642\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Red Sea," indeed! Talk not to me Of purple}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Pharaoh -- I have a Navy in the West Would pierce his Columns thro' -- Guileless, yet of such Glory fine That all along the Line Is it, or is it not, divine -- The Eye inquires with a sigh That Earth sh'd be so big -- What Exultation in the Woe -- What Wine in the fatigue! 1643\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExtol thee -- could I? Then I will By saying nothing new -- But just the truest truth That thou art heavenly.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPerceiving thee is evidence That we are of the sky Partaking thee a guaranty Of immortality\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1644\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome one prepared this mighty show To which without a Ticket go The nations and the Days --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDisplayed before the simplest Door That all may witness it and more, The pomp of summer Days.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1645\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Ditch is dear to the Drunken man For is it not his Bed -- His Advocate -- his Edifice? How safe his fallen Head In her disheveled Sanctity -- Above him is the sky - Oblivion bending over him And Honor leagues away.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1646\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhy should we hurry -- why indeed? When every way we fly We are molested equally By immortality. No respite from the inference That this which is begun, Though where its labors lie A bland uncertainty Besets the sight This mighty night --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1647\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Glory not a Beam is left But her Eternal House -- The Asterisk is for the Dead, The Living, for the Stars --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1648\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe immortality she gave We borrowed at her Grave -- For just one Plaudit famishing, The Might of Human love --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1649\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Cap of Lead across the sky Was tight and surly drawn We could not find the mighty Face The Figure was withdrawn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Chill came up as from a shaft Our noon became a well A Thunder storm combines the charms Of Winter and of Hell.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1650 A lane of Yellow led the eye Unto a Purple Wood Whose soft inhabitants to be Surpasses solitude If Bird the silence contradict Or flower presume to show In that low summer of the West Impossible to know --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1651\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Word made Flesh is seldom And tremblingly partook Nor then perhaps reported But have I not mistook Each one of us has tasted With ecstasies of stealth The very food debated To our specific strength -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Word that breathes distinctly Has not the power to die Cohesive as the Spirit It may expire if He -- "Made Flesh and dwelt among us" Could condescension be Like this consent of Language This loved Philology.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1652\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAdvance is Life's condition The Grave but a Relay Supposed to be a terminus That makes it hated so -\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Tunnel is not lighted Existence with a wall Is better we consider Than not exist at all -- As we pass Houses musing slow If they be occupied So minds pass minds If they be occupied\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1654\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBeauty crowds me till I die Beauty mercy have on me But if I expire today Let it be in sight of thee -\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1655\u13\'0d\u13\'0dConferring with myself My stranger disappeared Though first upon a berry fat Miraculously fared How paltry looked my cares My practise how absurd Superfluous my whole career Beside this travelling Bird\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1656\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDown Time's quaint stream Without an oar We are enforced to sail Our Port a secret Our Perchance a Gale What Skipper would Incur the Risk What Buccaneer would ride Without a surety from the Wind Or schedule of the Tide --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1657\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEden is that old-fashioned House We dwell in every day Without suspecting our abode Until we drive away.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow fair on looking back, the Day We sauntered from the Door -- Unconscious our returning, But discover it no more.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1658\u13\'0d\u13\'0dEndanger it, and the Demand Of tickets for a sigh Amazes the Humility Of Credibility --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRecover it to Nature And that dejected Fleet Find Consternation's Carnival Divested of its Meat.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1659\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFame is a fickle food Upon a shifting plate Whose table once a Guest but not The second time is set.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhose crumbs the crows inspect And with ironic caw Flap past it to the Farmer's Corn -- Men eat of it and die. Glory is that bright tragic thing That for an instant Means Dominion -- Warms some poor name That never felt the Sun, Gently replacing In oblivion --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1661\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGuest am I to have Light my northern room Why to cordiality so averse to come Other friends adjourn Other bonds decay Why avoid so narrowly My fidelity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1662\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe went by sleep that drowsy route To the surmising Inn -- At day break to begin his race Or ever to remain --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1663\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHis mind of man, a secret makes I meet him with a start He carries a circumference In which I have no part --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOr even if I deem I do He otherwise may know Impregnable to inquest However neighborly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1664\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI did not reach Thee But my feet slip nearer every day Three Rivers and a Hill to cross One Desert and a Sea I shall not count the journey one When I am telling thee.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTwo deserts, but the Year is cold So that will help the sand One desert crossed -- The second one Will feel as cool as land Sahara is too little price To pay for thy Right hand.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sea comes last -- Step merry, feet, So short we have to go -- To play together we are prone, But we must labor now, The last shall be the lightest load That we have had to draw.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun goes crooked - That is Night Before he makes the bend. We must have passed the Middle Sea -- Almost we wish the End Were further off -- Too great it seems So near the Whole to stand.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWe step like Plush, We stand like snow, The waters murmur new. Three rivers and the Hill are passed -Two deserts and the sea! Now Death usurps my Premium And gets the look at Thee.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1665\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI know of people in the Grave Who would be very glad To know the news I know tonight If they the chance had had.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Tis this expands the least event And swells the scantest deed -- My right to walk upon the Earth If they this moment had.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1666\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI see thee clearer for the Grave That took thy face between No Mirror could illumine thee Like that impassive stone --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI know thee better for the Act That made thee first unknown The stature of the empty nest Attests the Bird that's gone.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1667\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI watcher her face to see which way She took the awful news -- Whether she died before she heard Or in protracted bruise Remained a few slow years with us -Each heavier than the last -- A further afternoon to fail, As Flower at fall of Frost. If I could tell how glad I was I should not be so glad - But when I cannot make the Force, Nor mould it into Word, I know it is a sign That new Dilemna be From mathematics further off Than for Eternity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1669\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn snow thou comest -- Thou shalt go with the resuming ground, The sweet derision of the crow, And Glee's advancing sound.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn fear thou comest -- Thou shalt go at such a gait of joy That man anew embark to live Upon the depth of thee.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1670\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn Winter in my Room I came upon a Worm -- Pink, lank and warm -- But as he was a worm And worms presume Not quite with him at home -- Secured him by a string To something neighboring And went along.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Trifle afterward A thing occurred I'd not believe it if I heard But state with creeping blood -- A snake with mottles rare Surveyed my chamber floor In feature as the worm before But ringed with power --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe very string with which I tied him -- too When he was mean and new That string was there --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI shrank -- "How fair you are"! Propitiation's claw -- "Afraid," he hissed "Of me"? "No cordiality" -- He fathomed me -- Then to a Rhythm Slim Secreted in his Form As Patterns swim Projected him.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat time I flew Both eyes his way Lest he pursue Nor ever ceased to run Till in a distant Town Towns on from mine I set me down This was a dream.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1671\u13\'0d\u13\'0dJudgment is justest When the Judged, His action laid away, Divested is of every Disk But his sincerity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHonor is then the safest hue In a posthumous Sun -- Not any color will endure That scrutiny can burn. Lightly stepped a yellow star To its lofty place -- Loosed the Moon her silver hat From her lustral Face - All of Evening softly lit As an Astral Hall -- Father, I observed to Heaven, You are punctual.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1673\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNature can do no more She has fulfilled her Dyes Whatever Flower fail to come Of other Summer days Her crescent reimburse If other Summers be Nature's imposing negative Nulls opportunity --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1674\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot any sunny tone From any fervent zone Find entrance there -- Better a grave of Balm Toward human nature's home -- And Robins near -- Than a stupendous Tomb Proclaiming to the Gloom How dead we are --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1675 Of this is Day composed A morning and a noon A Revelry unspeakable And then a gay unknown Whose Pomps allure and spurn And dower and deprive And penury for Glory Remedilessly leave.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1676\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOf Yellow was the outer Sky In Yellower Yellow hewn Till Saffron in Vermilion slid Whose seam could not be shewn.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1677\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn my volcano grows the Grass A meditative spot -- An acre for a Bird to choose Would be the General thought --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow red the Fire rocks below -- How insecure the sod Did I disclose Would populate with awe my solitude.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1678\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPeril as a Possesssion 'Tis Good to hear Danger disintegrates Satiety There's Basis there -- Begets an awe That searches Human Nature's creases As clean as Fire. Rather arid delight If Contentment accrue Make an abstemious Ecstasy Not so good as joy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut Rapture's Expense Must not be incurred With a tomorrow knocking And the Rent unpaid --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1680\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSometimes with the Heart Seldom with the Soul Scarcer once with the Might Few -- love at all.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1681\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSpeech is one symptom of Affection And Silence one -- The perfectest communication Is heard of none --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExists and its indorsement Is had within -- Behold, said the Apostle, Yet had not seen!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1682\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSummer begins to have the look Peruser of enchanting Book Reluctantly but sure perceives A gain upon the backward leaves --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAutumn begins to be inferred By millinery of the cloud Or deeper color in the shawl That wraps the everlasting hill.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe eye begins its avarice A meditation chastens speech Some Dyer of a distant tree Resumes his gaudy industry.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dConclusion is the course of All At most to be perennial And then elude stability Recalls to immortality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1683\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat she forgot me was the least I felt it second pain That I was worthy to forget Was}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
most I thought upon.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFaithful was all that I could boast But Constancy became To her, by her innominate, A something like a shame.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1684\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Blunder is in estimate. Eternity is there We say, as of a Station -- Meanwhile he is so near\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe joins me in my Ramble -- Divides abode with me -- No Friend have I that so persists As this Eternity. The butterfly obtains But little sympathy Though favorably mentioned In Entomology --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBecause he travels freely And wears a proper coat The circumspect are certain That he is dissolute --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHad he the homely scutcheon Of modest Industry 'Twere fitter certifying For Immortality --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1686\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe event was directly behind Him Yet He did not guess Fitted itself to Himself like a Robe Relished His ignorance. Motioned itself to drill Loaded and Levelled And let His Flesh Centuries from His soul.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1687\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe gleam of an heroic Act Such strange illumination The Possible's slow fuse is lit By the Imagination.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1688 The Hills erect their Purple Heads The Rivers lean to see Yet Man has not of all the Throng A Curiosity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1689\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe look of thee, what is it like Hast thou a hand or Foot Or Mansion of Identity And what is thy Pursuit?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThy fellows are they realms or Themes Hast thou Delight or Fear Or Longing -- and is that for us Or values more severe?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLet change transfuse all other Traits Enact all other Blame But deign this least certificate -- That thou shalt be the same.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1690\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe ones that disappeared are back The Phoebe and the Crow Precisely as in March is heard The curtness of the Jay -- Be this an Autumn or a Spring My wisdom loses way One side of me the nuts are ripe The other side is May.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1691\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe overtakelessness of those Who have accomplished Death Majestic is to me beyond The majesties of Earth.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe soul her "Not at Home" Inscribes upon the flesh -- And takes her fair aerial gait Beyond the hope of touch.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1692\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe right to perish might be thought An undisputed right -- Attempt it, and the Universe Upon the opposite Will concentrate its officers -- You cannot even die But nature and mankind must pause To pay you scrutiny.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1693\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Sun retired to a cloud A Woman's shawl as big -- And then he sulked in mercury Upon a scarlet log -- The drops on Nature's forehead stood Home flew the loaded bees -- The South unrolled a purple fan And handed to the trees.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1694\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe wind drew off Like hungry dogs Defeated of a bone -- Through fissures in Volcanic cloud The yellow lightning shone -- The trees held up Their mangled limbs Like animals in pain -- When Nature falls upon herself Beware an Austrian.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1695\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere is a solitude of space A solitude of sea A solitude of death, but these Society shall be Compared with that profounder site That polar privacy A soul admitted to itself -- Finite infinity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1696\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThese are the days that Reindeer love And pranks the Northern star -- This is the Sun's objective, And Finland of the Year.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1697\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey talk as slow as Legends grow No mushroom is their mind But foliage of sterility Too stolid for the wind --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey laugh as wise as Plots of Wit Predestined to unfold The point with bland prevision Portentously untold.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1698 'Tis easier to pity those when dead That which pity previous Would have saved -- A Tragedy enacted Secures Applause That Tragedy enacting Too seldom does.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1699\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo do a magnanimous thing And take oneself by surprise If oneself is not in the habit of him Is precisely the finest of Joys --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot to do a magnanimous thing Notwithstanding it never be known Notwithstanding it cost us existence once Is Rapture herself spurn --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dPoems No. 1700-1775\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1700\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo tell the Beauty would decrease To state the Spell demean -- There is a syllable-less Sea Of which it is the sign - My will endeavors for its word And fails, but entertains A Rapture as of Legacies -- Of introspective Mines --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1701\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo their apartment deep No ribaldry may creep Untumbled this abode By any man but God --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1702\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToday or this noon She dwelt so close I almost touched her -Tonight she lies Past neighborhood And bough and steeple, Now past surmise.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1703\u13\'0d\u13\'0d'Twas comfort in her Dying Room To hear the living Clock -- A short relief to have the wind Walk boldly up and knock -- Diversion from the Dying Theme To hear the children play -- But wrong the more That these could live And this of ours must die.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1704\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUnto a broken heart No other one may go Without the high prerogative Itself hath suffered too.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1705\u13\'0d\u13\'0dVolcanoes be in Sicily And South America I judge from my Geography -- Volcanos nearer here A Lava step at any time Am I inclined to climb -- A Crater I may contemplate Vesuvius at Home.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1706\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhen we have ceased to care The Gift is given For which we gave the Earth And mortgaged Heaven But so declined in worth 'Tis ignominy now To look upon --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1707 Winter under cultivation Is as arable as Spring.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1708\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWitchcraft has not a Pedigree 'Tis early as our Breath And mourners meet it going out The moment of our death --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1709\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith sweetness unabated Informed the hour had come With no remiss of triumph The autumn started home\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer home to be with Nature As competition done By influential kinsmen Invited to return --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIn supplements of Purple An adequate repast In heavenly reviewing Her residue be past --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1710\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA curious Cloud surprised the Sky, 'Twas like a sheet with Horns; The sheet was Blue -- The Antlers Gray -- It almost touched the lawns.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo low it leaned -- then statelier drew -- And trailed like robes away, A Queen adown a satin aisle Had not the majesty.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1711\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA face devoid of love or grace, A hateful, hard, successful face, A face with which a stone Would feel as thoroughly at ease As were they old acquaintances -- First time together thrown.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1712\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA Pit -- but Heaven over it -- And Heaven beside, and Heaven abroad, And yet a Pit -- With Heaven over it.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo stir would be to slip -To look would be to drop -- To dream -- to sap the Prop That holds my chances up. Ah! Pit! With Heaven over it!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe depth is all my thought -- I dare not ask my feet -- 'Twould start us where we sit So straight you'd scarce suspect It was a Pit -- with fathoms under it -- Its Circuit just the same. Seed -- summer -- tomb -- Whose Doom to whom?\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1713\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAs subtle as tomorrow That never came, A warrant, a conviction, Yet but a name.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1714\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy a departing light We see acuter, quite, Than by a wick that stays. There's something in the flight That clarifies the sight And decks the rays.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1715\u13\'0d\u13\'0dConsulting summer's clock, But half the hours remain. I ascertain it with a shock -- I shall not look again. The second half of joy Is shorter than the first. The truth I do not dare to know I muffle with a jest.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1716\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDeath is like the insect Menacing the tree, Competent to kill it, But decoyed may be.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBait it with the balsam, Seek it with the saw, Baffle, if it cost you Everything you are.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThen, if it have burrowed Out of reach of skill -- Wring the tree and leave it, 'Tis the vermin's will.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1717\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDid life's penurious length Italicize its sweetness, The men that daily live Would stand so deep in joy That it would clog the cogs Of that revolving reason Whose esoteric belt Protects our sanity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1718\u13\'0d\u13\'0dDrowning is not so pitiful As the attempt to rise Three times, 'tis said, a sinking man Comes up to face the skies, And then declines forever To that abhorred abode, Where hope and he part company -- For he is grasped of God. The Maker's cordial visage, However good to see, Is shunned, we must admit it, Like an adversity.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1719\u13\'0d\u13\'0dGod is indeed a jealous God -- He cannot bear to see That we had rather not with Him But with each other play.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1720 Had I known that the first was the last I should have kept it longer. Had I known that the last was the first I should have drunk it stronger. Cup, it was your fault, Lip was not the liar. No, lip, it was yours, Bliss was most to blame.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1721\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHe was my host -- he was my guest, I never to this day If I invited him could tell, Or he invited me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo infinite our intercourse So intimate, indeed, Analysis as capsule seemed To keeper of the seed.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1722\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHer face was in a bed of hair, Like flowers in a plot -- Her hand was whiter than the sperm That feeds the sacred light. Her tongue more tender than the tune That totters in the leaves -- Who hears may be incredulous, Who witnesses, believes.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1723\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHigh from the earth I heard a bird, He trod upon the trees As he esteemed them trifles, And then he spied a breeze, And situated softly Upon a pile of wind Which in a perturbation Nature had left behind. A joyous going fellow I gathered from his talk Which both of benediction And badinage partook. Without apparent burden I subsequently learned He was the faithful father Of a dependent brood. And this untoward transport His remedy for care. A contrast to our respites. How different we are!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1724\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow dare the robins sing, When men and women hear Who since they went to their account Have settled with the year! -- Paid all that life had earned In one consummate bill, And now, what life or death can do Is immaterial. Insulting is the sun To him whose mortal light Beguiled of immortality Bequeaths him to the night. Extinct be every hum In deference to him Whose garden wrestles with the dew, At daybreak overcome!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1725\u13\'0d\u13\'0dI took one Draught of Life -- I'll tell you what I paid -Precisely an existence -The market price, they said.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThey weighed me, Dust by Dust -- They balanced Film with Film, Then handed me my Being's worth -- A single Dram of Heaven!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1726\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf all the griefs I am to have Would only come today, I am so happy I believe They'd laugh and run away.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf all the joys I am to have Would only come today, They could not be so big as this That happens to me now.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1727\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf ever the lid gets off my head And lets the brain away The fellow will go where he belonged -- Without a hint from me,\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd the world -- if the world be looking on -- Will see how far from home It is possible}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
for sense to live The soul there -- all the time.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1728\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIs Immortality a bane That men are so oppressed? I've got an arrow here. Loving the hand that sent it I the dart revere.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFell, they will say, in "skirmish"! Vanquished, my soul will know By but a simple arrow Sped by an archer's bow.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1730\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Lethe" in my flower, Of which they who drink In the fadeless orchards Hear the bobolink!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMerely flake or petal As the Eye beholds Jupiter! my father! I perceive the rose!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1731\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLove can do all but raise the Dead I doubt if even that From such a giant were withheld Were flesh equivalent\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut love is tired and must sleep, And hungry and must graze And so abets the shining Fleet Till it is out of gaze.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1732\u13\'0d\u13\'0dMy life closed twice before its close -It yet remains to see If Immortality unveil A third event to me\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSo huge, so hopeless to conceive As these that twice befell. Parting is all we know of heaven, And all we need of hell.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1733\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNo man saw awe, nor to his house Admitted he a man Though by his awful residence Has human nature been.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dNot deeming of his dread abode Till laboring to flee A grasp on comprehension laid Detained vitality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dReturning is a different route The Spirit could not show For breathing is the only work To be enacted now.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d"Am not consumed," old Moses wrote, "Yet saw him face to face" -- That very physiognomy I am convinced was this.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1734\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOh, honey of an hour, I never knew thy power, Prohibit me Till my minutest dower, My unfrequented flower, Deserving be. One crown that no one seeks And yet the highest head Its isolation coveted Its stigma deified\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhile Pontius Pilate lives In whatsoever hell That coronation pierces him He recollects it well.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1736 Proud of my broken heart, since thou didst break it, Proud of the pain I did not feel till thee, Proud of my night, since thou with moons dost slake it, Not to partake thy passion, my humility. Thou can'st not boast, like Jesus, drunken without companion Was the strong cup of anguish brewed for the Nazarene Thou can'st not pierce tradition with the peerless puncture, See! I usurped thy crucifix to honor mine! 1737\u13\'0d\u13\'0dRearrange a "Wife's" affection! When they dislocate my Brain! Amputate my freckled Bosom! Make me bearded like a man!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBlush, my spirit, in thy Fastness -- Blush, my unacknowledged clay -- Seven years of troth have taught thee More than Wifehood every may!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLove that never leaped its socket -- Trust entrenched in narrow pain -- Constancy thro' fire -- awarded -- Anguish -- bare of anodyne!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBurden -- borne so far triumphant -- None suspect me of the crown, For I wear the "Thorns" till Sunset -Then -- my Diadem put on.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBig my Secret but it's bandaged -- It will never get away Till the Day its Weary Keeper Leads it through the Grave to thee.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1738\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSoftened by Time's consummate plush, How sleek the woe appears That threatened childhood's citadel And undermined the years.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBisected now, by bleaker griefs, We envy the despair That devastated childhood's realm, So easy to repair.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1739\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSome say goodnight -- at night -- I say goodnight by day -- Good-bye -- the Going utter me -- Goodnight, I still reply --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor parting, that is night, And presence, simply dawn -- Itself, the purple on the height Denominated morn. Sweet is the swamp with its secrets, Until we meet a snake; 'Tis then we sigh for houses, And our departure take\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAt that enthralling gallop That only childhood knows. A snake is summer's treason, And guile is where it goes.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1741\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat it will never come again Is what makes life so sweet. Believing what we don't believe Does not exhilarate.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat if it be, it be at best An ablative estate -- This instigates an appetite Precisely opposite.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1742\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe distance that the dead have gone Does not at first appear -- Their coming back seems possible For many an ardent year.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then, that we have followed them, We more than half suspect, So intimate have we become With their dear retrospect.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1743 The grave my little cottage is, Where "Keeping house" for thee I make my parlor orderly And lay the marble tea.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFor two divided, briefly, A cycle, it may be, Till everlasting life unite In strong society.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1744\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe joy that has no stem no core, Nor seed that we can sow, Is edible to longing. But ablative to show.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBy fundamental palates Those products are preferred Impregnable to transit And patented by pod.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1745\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe mob within the heart Police cannot suppress The riot given at the first Is authorized as peace\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUncertified of scene Or signified of sound But growing like a hurricane In a congenial ground.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1746\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe most important population Unnoticed dwell, They have a heaven each instant Not any hell. Their names, unless you know them, 'Twere useless tell. Of bumble-bees and other nations The grass is full.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1747\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe parasol is the umbrella's daughter, And associates with a fan While her father abuts the tempest And abridges the rain.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe former assists a siren In her serene display; But her father is borne and honored, And borrowed to this day.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1748\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe reticent volcano keeps His never slumbering plan -- Confided are his projects pink To no precarious man.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIf nature will not tell the tale Jehovah told to her Can human nature not survive Without a listener?\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAdmonished by her buckled lips Let every babbler be The only secret people keep Is Immortality.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1749\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe waters chased him as he fled, Not daring look behind - A billow whispered in his Ear, "Come home with me, my friend -- My parlor is of shriven glass, My pantry has a fish For every palate in the Year" -- To this revolting bliss The object floating at his side Made no distinct reply.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1750\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe words the happy say Are paltry melody But those the silent feel Are beautiful --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1751\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThere comes an hour when begging stops, When the long interceding lips Perceive their prayer is vain. "Thou shalt not" is a kinder sword Than from a disappointing God "Disciple, call again."\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1752\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThis docile one inter While we who dare to live Arraign the sunny brevity That sparkled to the Grave.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dOn her departing span No wilderness remain As dauntless in the House of Death As if it were her own -- Through those old Grounds of memory, The sauntering alone Is a divine intemperance A prudent man would shun. Of liquors that are vended 'Tis easy to beware But statutes do not meddle With the internal bar. Pernicious as the sunset Permitting to pursue But impotent to gather, The tranquil perfidy Alloys our firmer moments With that severest gold Convenient to the longing But otherwise withheld.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1754\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo lose thee -- sweeter than to gain All other hearts I knew. 'Tis true the drought is destitute, But then, I had the dew!\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Caspian has its realms of sand, Its other realm of sea. Without the sterile perquisite, No Caspian could be.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1755\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee, One clover, and a bee, And revery. The revery alone will do, If bees are few. 'Twas here my summer paused What ripeness after then To other scene or other soul My sentence had begun.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo winter to remove With winter to abide Go manacle your icicle Against your Tropic Bride.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1757\u13\'0d\u13\'0dUpon the gallows hung a wretch, Too sullied for the hell To which the law entitled him. As nature's curtain fell The one who bore him tottered in , -For this was woman's son. "'Twere all I had," she stricken gasped -- Oh, what a livid boon!\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1758\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhere every bird is bold to go And bees abashless play, The foreigner before he knocks Must thrust the tears away.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1759\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhich misses most, The hand that tends, Or heart so gently borne, 'Tis twice as heavy as it was Because the hand is gone? Which blesses most, The lip that can, Or that that went to sleep\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWith "if I could" endeavoring Without the strength to shape? 1760\u13\'0d\u13\'0dElysium is as far as to The very nearest Room If in that Room a Friend await Felicity or Doom --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWhat fortitude the Soul contains, That it can so endure The accent of a coming Foot -- The opening of a Door --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1761\u13\'0d\u13\'0dA train went through a burial gate, A bird broke forth and sang, And trilled, and quivered, and shook his throat Till all the churchyard rang;\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAnd then adjusted his little notes, And bowed and sang again. Doubtless, he thought it meet of him To say good-by to men.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1762\u13\'0d\u13\'0dWere natural mortal lady Who had so little time To pack her trunk and order The great exchange of clime --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow rapid, how momentous -- What exigencies were - But nature will be ready And have an hour to spare.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dTo make some trifle fairer That was too fair before -- Enchanting by remaining, And by departure more.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1763\u13\'0d\u13\'0dFame is a bee. It has a song -- It has a sting -- Ah, too, it has a wing.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1764\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe saddest noise, the sweetest noise, The maddest noise that grows, -- The birds, they make it in the spring, At night's delicious close.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBetween the March and April line -That magical frontier Beyond which summer hesitates, Almost too heavenly near.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt makes us think of all the dead That sauntered with us here, By separation's sorcery Made cruelly more dear.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dIt makes us think of what we had, And what we now deplore. We almost wish those siren throats Would go and sing no more.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dAn ear can break a human heart As quickly as a spear, We wish the ear had not a heart So dangerously near.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1765\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThat Love is all there is, Is all we know of Love; It is enough, the freight should be Proportioned to the groove.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1766\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThose final Creatures, -- who they are -- That, faithful to the close, Administer her ecstasy, But just the Summer knows.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1767\u13\'0d\u13\'0dSweet hours have perished here; This is a mighty room; Within its precincts hopes have played, -- Now shadows in the tomb.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1768\u13\'0d\u13\'0dLad of Athens, faithful be To Thyself, And Mystery -- All the rest is Perjury --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1769 The longest day that God appoints Will finish with the sun. Anguish can travel to its stake, And then it must return.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1770\u13\'0d\u13\'0dExperiment escorts us last -- His pungent company Will not allow an Axiom An Opportunity\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1771\u13\'0d\u13\'0dHow}
\par \pard\plain \s20\sb0\sa0\dbch\af7\dbch\af5\afs20\loch\f5\fs20{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
fleet -- how indiscreet an one -- How always wrong is Love -- The joyful little Deity We are not scourged to serve --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1772 Let me not thirst with this Hock at my Lip, Nor beg, with Domains in my Pocket -- 1773\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe Summer that we did not prize, Her treasures were so easy Instructs us by departing now And recognition lazy --\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBestirs itself -- puts on its Coat, And scans with fatal promptness For Trains that moment out of sight, Unconscious of his smartness. 1774\u13\'0d\u13\'0dToo happy Time dissolves itself And leaves no remnant by -- 'Tis Anguish not a Feather hath Or too much weight to fly --\u13\'0d\u13\'0d1775\u13\'0d\u13\'0dThe earth has many keys, Where melody is not Is the unknown peninsula. Beauty is nature's fact.\u13\'0d\u13\'0dBut witness for her land, And witness for her sea, The cricket is her utmost Of elegy to me.\u13\'0d\u13\'0d}
\par }